1. Our refrigerator is out of order.
2. It was raining yesterday.
3. This book isn't interesting at all.
4. I have a dog.
5. I forgot to lock the storeroom.
6. Has the movie started yet?
7. This house has two bathrooms.
8. Where will we eat?
9. She is awkward.
10. If only I could speak English.
11. His answer is different from mine.
12. I will come with you.
13. I turned the doorknob.
14. This shirt is too small for me to wear.
15. She decided not to attend the meeting.
16. What are your strong points?
17. My house is big.
18. I want to talk to you.
19. How old is your grandfather?
20. They were listening to the radio.
21. Can I borrow your umbrella.
22. I'm not busy.
23. We played soccer yesterday.
24. The fruit went bad.
25. The kid got hurt.
26. I have many thing to do.
27. Cheese is made from milk.
28. Few students knew his name.
29. Don't be taken in by his words.
30. Who will look after your dog.
31. I felt like crying.
32. We found where out where he lives.
33. I'm proud of you.
34. I was busy all day.
35. I'm terribly sorry.
36. Our teacher speaks French as well as English.
37. Do they sell notebooks at that store.
38. Did you telephone him?
39. His aim is to become a doctor.
40. He loves her.
41. There're many words that I don't understand.
42. It is Monday, today.
43. He was sitting between Mary and Tom.
44. Is he a teacher?
45. This is the book that I told you about.
46. Can you do this problem?
47. We moved into a new house.
48. Put that in writing.
49. He is still young.
50. He promised to come, but he didn't come.
51. I liked that young man.
52. It's diffcult for me to answer the question.
53. I got my right leg hurt in the accident.
54. He was just behind me.
55. Add a little sugar and cream.
56. He is the captain of our team.
57. A majority voted against the bill.
58. Whose shoes are these?
59. I can't swim.
60. Do you go to school by bus.
61. I need first aid.
62. I'm so happy.
63. He painted the ceiling blue.
64. I hope you having fun.
65. That bridge is anything but safe.
66. He was sitting on the bench.
67. She went home.
68. You really shouldn't use pirated software.
69. He doesn't know English, much less than French.
70. I don't know if she will come.
71. Where is the restroom.
72. Would you like me to help you.
73. The boy tried moving the heavy sofa.
74. All of use were slient.
75. We would like to stay here tonight.
76. He entered my room without permission.
77. How many books do you have?
78. Did you hear someone ring the door bell.
79. She is good at speaking English.
80. My mother has four brothers.
81. Whose pencil is this.
82. These grapes are ripe.
83. We thought that you were married.
84. Hi, what happened?
85. Put this sentence into English.
86. We are the first to arrive.
87. He got angry.
88. I don't like it at all.
89. What do you have?
90. I can't stand up.
91. One of two answers is right.
92. They live downstairs
93. I helped them yesterday.
94. Can you pick me up at the station.
95. Can you help me.
96. I go home early every day.
97. Who is that woman?
98. You'll get well soon
99. This blouse is cotton.
100. You have made the very same mistake again.
