1. I'm pretty sure.
2. This is no smoke with fire.
3. My work is finished.
4. My joints ache.
5. I can ride a horse.
6. I remember seeing here somewhere.
7. I can't stop laughing.
8. They forgot to lock the door.
9. My mother cut the cake.
10. Take off your socks, please.
11. She kicked the door.
12. Let's have lunch.
13. There is a page missing.
14. Follow his example.
15. Those books are mine.
16. My stomach is growing.
17. I told him to come.
18. Don't tell lies.
19. I'll be with you in a second.
20. I have finished my homework yet.
21. May I ask you something?
22. Tom wants to go to Japan.
23. We will never agree.
24. I have to go now.
25. It's up to you.
26. Which is mine?
27. It's the third of october.
28. Tom finally gave up smoking.
29. A piano is expensive.
30. Mary can dance well.
31. He often makes people angry.
32. I didn't take part in the conversation.
33. What happened?
34. He still writes to me from time to time.
35. She hung the calendar on the wall.
36. She has just turned twelve.
37. Let's finished it right way.
38. Not all children like apples.
39. I think we had better wait another thirty minutes.
40. Take off your coat and make yourself at home.
41. My homework is nearly complete.
42. I'm waiting for the bus.
43. He seemed to have been very happy. 
44. I can't help it.
45. They have their own troubles.
46. I will do it myself.
47. I know she is sleeping.
48. I'm very busy.
49. I go to my father's place twice a year.
50. I usually eat out.
51. My idea is quite difference from yours.
52. What did he say?
53. I'm tried now.
54. All our plans went wrong.
55. I must return home within a week.
56. Come and help us.
57. Eat everything.
58. I ate a hamburger and ordered another.
59. Those are their books.
60. The knife is not sharp.
61. He is stronger than I am.
62. I can do it in half the time.
63. The boy ran away.
64. I have lost my pen.
65. You bike is better than mine.
66. Why is so hot?
67. They have lived in this town for ten years.
68. I have a suggestion.
69. He broke the world record.
70. I got married eight years ago.
71. She has flowers in her hand.
72. We were in a hurry.
73. He is crazy about baseball.
74. He was busy yesterday afternoon.
75. Do you mind if I open the window.
76. She doesn't understand me either.
77. He is said to be a good doctor.
78. My father was busy.
79. Wait for a moment outside the room.
80. How far is it from here.
81. The food is getting cold.
82. He made an apology.
83. Have you ever been to Tokyo.
84. My wife will be glad to see you, too.
85. Are you busy now?
86. Nobody can break his record.
87. The man robbbed him of all his money.
88. What time do we leave tomorrow?
89. I put it in the drawer.
90. I can't lift my right arm.
91. Name and address, please.
92. I will introduce her husband to you.
93. You can go if you want to.
94. He knows nothing about plan.
95. I belong to the baseball team.
96. What are you interesting in?
97. I have a pretty dog.
98. What is your address?
99. You're a genius.
100. It rained hard all day.
