1. You should your doctor's advice.
2. There is no meat left in the fridge.
3. This is too easy for him.
4. There is a fork missing.
5. He came to see me.
6. Something is wrong with my email.
7. I just arrived in time for the plane
8. How did you come to know each other?
9. Her books sell pretty well.
10. They never tell a lie.
11. I wich I could.
12. I hope today's ball game won't be canceled.
13. He is a very dangerous man.
14. This is a little gift for you.
15. He was married to here sister.
16. Winter in New York can be very cold.
17. I'm going to start.
18. I'm accustomed to cold weather.
19. It doesn't matter where he comes from.
20. All the flowers in the garden are yellow.
21. What time is it.
22. She wears a lot of makeup.
23. She runs faster run I do.
24. What is she like.
25. Have you ever returned home before seven.
26. I'll be back at half past six.
27. The car is very fast.
28. Have you ever seen a panda?
29. Look at the map at page 62.
30. You look sick.
31. He is eating.
32. I don't know where my watch is.
33. I'm afraid it will rain.
34. Ask him when the next plane leaves.
35. Good students study hard.
36. It's very hot here.
37. I have to comb my hair.
38. I'm just beginning.
39. Where did you see the woman.
40. Get me a chair, please.
41. This book seemed interesting.
42. Those books are theirs.
43. He wants to see us again.
44. He is capable of teaching French.
45. He got up early than usual.
46. Prices have jumped.
47. When would it be convenient for you.
48. I have a tourist visa.
49. The police man was off duty.
50. He laughed in spite of himself.
51. He has broken the record.
52. Take it easy.
53. I'll back in a wink.
54. I fell asleep before my father came home.
55. I like your car.
56. Shut your mouth.
57. A driver was sleeping in the car.
58. I don't like this jacket.
59. Take anything you want.
60. What are you going to do?
61. This table is reserved.
62. Never tell a lie.
63. Beautiful day, isn't it.
64. I call you late today.
65. This makes no sense.
66. May I borrow your dictionary.
67. He write books.
68. There is a pair of scissiors on the desk.
69. It tasted sweet.
70. He was patient.
71. You made a wise choice.
72. This is my daughter.
73. I wonder if the plane will arrive on time.
74. The chili burnt my tongue. 
75. I'm easygoing
76. I want to drive.
77. Your dress is very nice.
78. How unlucky I am?
79. Please pass me the butter.
80. He was elected president.
81. We live near a big library.
82. The boys is kind.
83. We have made friends with Tom.
84. He descripe the scene in detail.
85. I wish our classroom were air-conditioned.
86. Let's open the window.
87. Keep this money for me.
88. Who broke this window?
89. He ran into the room.
90. Who painted these pictures?
91. What are you doing?
92. He is good at driving.
93. I don't know weather to turn left or right
94. I'm glad you enjoy it.
95. Do you want to sit down?
96. You are soon adapt yourself to this new life.
97. Whose bag is this.
98. This novel is diffcult to understand.
99. Staying home isn't fund
100. This book is yours.