1. I want to marry you.
2. I can't go, nor do I want to.
3. How embarrassing.
4. She lives quite close by.
5. It's up to you to decide.
6. I'll miss you.
7. I can peel an apple.
8. He has a passive character.
9. Were you at home last night.
10. He is still here.
11. Excuse me, who are you?
12. What did you eat for breakfast?
13. Were you with anyone?
14. By the way, are you free this afternoon.
15. I awoke from the dream.
16. It was a great shock to me.
17. She is carrying a backpack on her back.
18. He ran out of money.
19. Can you run fast.
20. I met nobody on my way home.
21. Who is your teacher?
22. WHere can I rent a car.
23. A turkey is a little bigger than chicken.
24. Don't let me down.
25. I belong to the swim club
26. What are they made of.
27. Hold on to the rope.
28. It smells delicious.
29. I don't like to speaking in public.
30. I would like to come with me.
31. I raised my hand to ask a question
32. Where is entry to the museum?
33. She looks very lovely.
34. I'm glad to see you.
35. He married my sister.
36. Plants die without water.
37. The girl resembles her mother.
38. The twins look exactly alike.
39. My brother works in a bank.
40. I would like to eat sushi.
41. He comes back from Syney today.
42. The box is made of wood.
43. He uses honey instead of sugar.
44. Obviously, he is wrong.
45. Have you ever been to Canada.
46. It's still raining.
47. See if the gas is turned off
48. A sponge absorbs water.
49. What did you do?
48. No one could solve the problem.
49. Is the dog swimming.
50. I can't stand the noise.
51. Ask him where he parked his car.
52. I usually walk to school.
53. A mosquito just bit me.
54. I left my dictionary downstair.
55. Please come to my house.
56. Plese open the window.
57. Asia is much larger than Austria.
58. He was very happy.
59. How is the weather in New York?
60. Many people were deceived by the adevertisement.
61. Take care.
62. Hi, how are you?
63. He rang the doorbell.
64. It was the dark night.
67. I also like cake.
68. Are you new here?
69. He grows rice.
70. Many of us were tried.
71. Tell me the story.
72. Why were you absent yesterday.
73. Don't stop here.
74. Why are you so angry with him.
75. Please lend me your car.
76. Don't leave the window open.
77. The shop was closed when I went there.
78. I can't help crying.
79. He is very depressed.
80. For here or to go.
81. He wakes up early.
82. Please take care of yourself.
83. I want to close my account.
84. I'll be busy tomorrow.
85. Is there a supermarket near here.
86. I think so.
87. I have a headache.
88. Anybody can do that.
89. Tom likes swimming.
90. Do you have some time?
91. Keep your room clean.
92. He is her friend.
93. He was standing.
94. He is a kind boy.
95. You may go there.
96. He knows a lot about animals.
97. It's awfully hot today.
98. He cheated on the biology exam.
99. It is going to rain this afternoon.
100. My headache has gone.