It has been a busy few weeks for Ethereum, as the merge recedes ever further in the rear view mirror stuff just keeps on happening. Some of it good . Some of it's not so good.

So let's dig through it and see whether we should be optimistic or concerned.

Let's start with the not so good news which can be summed up in one word: censorship. Ever since the Office of Foreign Assets Control or OFAC, an arm of the U.S treasury department, impose sanctions on the tornado cash mixing protocol back in August. Ethereum validators have been left with a difficult question to answer: enforce protocol level censorship on Ethereum or violate sanctions.

Seeing as the latter carries potential sentences of up to 30 years in the big house or a 10 million dollar fine, it doesn't really mean there's much of a choice here and the stats speak for themselves. The Mev watch website has been tracking taking the percentage of ethereum blocks that are ofac compliant, that is not including any transactions that interact with the tornado Cash Smart contracts or Associated addresses and the number has been rising. at the time of shooting this video 74 of the blocks produced in the last 24 hours were ofac compliant.

for all the legal nastiness those validators could face for defying ofac it still amounts to censorship and needless to say runs contrary to the very ethos of crypto. a financial system that can be manipulated by those in power is. well the financial system we already have. thank you very much and making ethereum part of that Financial system is very much not why the project was created and it can all too easily get worse from here. 

as an excellent article in cryptoslate recently put it quote should ofac decide to sanction defy protocols or dexes due to some new internal U.S legislation. nearly two-thirds of ethereum validators would cease producing blocks that include defy or Dex transactions. while there is no indication that this is on the cards the fact that it is a possibility is perilous for crypto. that's right. perilous for crypto not just ethereum a lot is at stake. here which brings us.

onto the slightly better news as you'd expect ethereum's developers including of course vitalik himself are deeply aware of the threat posed by protocol level censorship and are taking steps to address it. over the weekend vitalik tweeted out a picture of ethereum's latest updated roadmap complete with an all-new stage which yes does of course rhyme with all the others. The Scourge is now scheduled to take place sometime after the next update phase The Surge which is aimed at increasing ethereum speed to 100 000 transactions per second.

note that the roadmap didn't include any dates so neither phase should be considered in any way imminent at this point in time. the stated goal of the scourge is to quote ensure reliable and credibly neutral transaction inclusion and avoid centralization and other protocol risks from Mev. ah yes Mev a term which leads us down a rabbit hole of complexity but that very much ties into the whole censorship question too. so let's quickly digress Mev or maximal extractable value is an issue which is dogged ethereum since its early days. Mev in the words of ethereum.org quote refers to the maximum value that can be extracted from block production in excess of the standard block reward and gas fees by including excluding and changing the order of transactions in a block.

basically it was a way for some Miners and now some validators to squeeze ethereum Network users for extra fees by selectively choosing which transactions are included in the blocks they create.

now this was disrupted by company called flashbots which developed open source software known as Mev boost designed to allow all validators to use Mev. this leveled out the playing field essentially removing the advantages that had allowed previous validators that employed Mev to profit ahead of others ethereum users were the ultimate beneficiaries of this. problem is Mev boost also allows validators to block non-ofac compliant transactions meaning enacting censorship on ethereum is now all too easily done.

the problem of Mev is one that stubbornly refuses to go away in other words moving.

on now it's worth noting that the scourge has been inserted into ethereum's roadmap ahead of The Verge which was originally slated to follow the search come on keep up. meaning obviously that the issue of censorship is being viewed as more pressing than node optimization data storage and scrubbing old data and rightly so. an ethereum that complies with the whims of bean counters at the treasury Department is not an ethereum we want or need.

however it does seem to be very much what many institutional investors would like which leads us rather neatly onto some of the other ethereum related news to have appeared in the last few days. you've probably spotted that eth has pumped a lot more than most other cryptos in the past fortnite and a big part of this is renewed interest from Big institutions.

top of Mind here is Fidelity the world's second largest asset manager after the death star. sorry BlackRock which recently announced plans to allow its institutional clients to trade eth. couple this with Fidelity's recent survey of institutional investors which revealed a perhaps surprisingly bullish outlook on crypto in general and it looks very much like the big investors are eyeing up more eth exposure.

Perhaps they're satisfied that the merge really has been a success and a feeling all warm and fuzzy about the fact that ethereum is increasingly bearing to pressure from ofac. all of which should tell you that although institutional interest means the price of eth is likely to rise off the back of it it's not something that we should be welcoming with open arms. institutions don't want a censorship resistant Network that is free and open to all. they want something that will rub along nicely with the current Financial system and allow them to have a say in how it's run via staking, not forgetting that sweet sweet passive income of course nor the fact that ethereum is now ESG compliant too. thanks to that 99.99 drop in energy use the merge ushered in.

so while ethereum appears to have had a good few weeks from a price perspective it's all a lot less Rosy when you appear beneath the surface. it looks like we're set for a battle between what institutional investors and their buddies in government want and what is actually good for all the rest of us. sure, at 10K eth sometime in the future would be nice but if it comes at the cost of what ethereum was always meant to be about. well then those gains would still add up to a loss.
