1. This is the reason I disagree with you.
2. You must not park the car in this street.
3. Would you like a weekend in Las Vagas?
4. This tree is the tallest and oldest in this forest.
5. What is your opinion with regard to this matter?
6. This stadium was flooded with baseball fans.
7. There is a glass on the table.
8. You should especially not drink on an empty stomach.
9. Tom is more hardingworking than any other student in his class.
10. The curve extends from point A to point B.
11. The trunk was too heavy for him to manage.
12. I'm only too glad to help with your work.
13. It's time you went to the barber's.
14. Jim is something of an authority on this subject.
15. He said he was afraid it would be rainy.
16. He was a gentle and mild-mannered old fellow.
17. If you go anywhere, you'd better tell you mother first.
18. Also, if you manufacture any products, please send information.
19. Sally has been on a diet since last month.
20. The story is so complicated that I couldn't follow it.
21. The clouds opened and sun shone through.
22. Let's get it together and talk it over.
23. I caught my finger in the door.
24. I can't study anyway in my house, it is too noisy.
25. This statue is as large as life.
26. Mt. Everest is 29,002 feet above see level.
27. All this is visible to numerous observers.
28. These potato chips are googd enough to make you want more.
29. My aunt showed me how to make good coffee.
30. I'll finish as quick as I can.
31. Indeed this card is small, but it is powerful.
32. This tooth has to have a filling.
33. An alpaca looks like a horse and a camel.
34. There are people who dont like spinach.
35. The manager of the team quits suddenly.
36. You must work hard if you are to succeed.
37. We can see distant objects with a telescope.
38. The task is so difficult that I can't accomplish it.
39. I consulted with my father about the plan.
40. They might not become great artist or composers.
41. There ought to be more buses during the rush hours.
42. This book is too difficult for me to understand.
45. This computer often goes out of order.
46. Can you give a ride to the station.
47. With more courage, I might have proposed to Mary.
48. Autumn is the best season for going on hiking.
49. Does this bus go to the Hilton Hotel?
50. Somebody has been sleeping on this sofa.
51. It's time you went to school.
52. It's nothing less than a miracle.
53. He parked his car at the end of street.
54. The girl began to cry at the sight of a dog.
55. Which shoes are you going to put on?
56. I play center in football and basketball.
57. I dont want to put her to even a small inconvenience.
58. We give foreign tourist the privilege of the tax exemption.
59. You'd better go to see your family doctor at once.
60. We ought to have phoned ahead and reserved a table.
61. The boy was used to being scolded.
62. I took it for granted that you knew the whole matter.
63. Jack is the most intelligent boy in the class.
64. My father came and opened the door.
65. Since then, he has put his whole soul into his work.
66. The new designs are much better than the old ones.
67. The uniforms are different from those of our school.
68. The view from the top of that building was magnificent.
69. This is the same watch that I've lost.
70. Chemical products account for approximately two-thirds of our exports
71. We may as well go at once.
75. This stone is so heavy that I can't lift it.
76. You should eat more, or you won't get well soon.
77. If you will help us, we will be very glad.
78. I will see him after I get back.
79. The medicine should be taken every three hours.
80. They say that movie is an interesting one.
81. This is a very camera I want it for a long time.
82. Bob plays not only the guitar but also the flute.
83. I wish I were a little taller.
84. I'm sorry, but I don't feel like going out today.
85. The company has three hospitals of its own.
86. The prisoner was set at liberty yesterday.
87. It is clear that Mike took the wrong bus.
88. I need to find out exactly what went wrong.
89. If you care to, you may come with us.
90. I would rather stay at home than go out.
91. That might be the most painful experience in my life.
92. A boy sleeping in bed seems to be an angel.
93. This is the first time I've seen such a dreadful movie.
94. In the meantime, he went to sleep.
95. It is unlikely that such cool headed person got upset.
96. Just as food feeds the body, so reading feeds the mind.
97. The lake is the deepest in Russia.
98. He didn't attend the meeting for that reason.
99. This kind of magizine can do harm to young people.
100. It'll take two hours to go there.
