1. That work will be finished at the end of this week.
2. Mike's job at home is cleaning the windows.
3. The clothes soaked in water overnight were heavy.
4. I hope I can manage to make both ends meet.
5. If you run fast, you can catch the train.
6. The lady that is speaking to that boy is his teacher.
7. Would you show me a less expensive than this one.
8. Nancy went to London as well as Pairs.
9. It was an argument of little substance.
10. We will begin the meeting when Bob comes.
11. The boy can handle a knife and fork very well.
12. You do such a thing once too often and get punished.
13. I prefer going out to staying at home.
14. This factory can turn out 200 cars a day.
15. He looked as if he knew all about it.
16. This box is too bulky to carry.
17. This is the pipeline which supplies the town with gas.
18. If anything, my new job is harder than my old one.
19. Lincoln is one of the greatest figures in American history.
20. It's difficult for me to answer the question.
21. You win, and I cook dinner for the entire family.
22. Stay here and wait for him, please.
23. Our company needs someone who is at home in advanced technology.
24. Where would you like me to put this?
25. Should he be given another chance, he would do his best.
26. Because my mother is sick, my father will cook today.
27. To everyone's astonishment, Mike won first prize in the speech contest.
28. This is a birthday cake with twelve candles on top.
29. We can communicate with each other in many ways.
30. That fish travels in a group, don't they?
31. When writing in English, she rarely makes mistakes.
32. You may well say so, but I can't agree.
32. You must come to the party by all means.
33. I don't think these ink stains will come off.
34. Mr and Mrs. Williams adopted a child whose parents were dead.
35. This is just one I've been looking for so long.
36. We yawn when we are short of oxygen.
37. You make mistakes if you do things in a hurry.
38. Have you ever been to an exhibition?
39. It is a great convenience to live near a station.
40. The man you met at the station is my father.
41. The mother told her daughter to do it herself.
42. The scientist gave a lecture on the structure of the universe.
43. What is the capital of the United States.
44. There is no use crying over split milk.
45. Is this what you've wanted for a long time?
46. Talk of a quick election was pure speculation.
47. It's a pity that Tim has no sense of humor.
48. You should think before you begin to speak.
49. That plan will probably fail in the long run.
50. This is the job of my own choice.
51. The brave fireman rescued a boy from the burning house.
52. We must be done if plan proves unworkable.
53. I can only say that I agree with you.
54. You need not have helped my son with his homework.
55. What is the best way for me to get a passport.
56. If it's not too much trouble, I would like some help.
57. We must study the affair as a whole.
58. She became scared when she noticed a man following her.
59. You are not entitled to attend the meeting.
60. Mr.Johnson ran fastest of the three.
61. I ran into an old friend of mine out of station.
62. When you get there, please tell him to come.
63. You should make the most of your ability.
64. I have my camera repaired at that shop.
65. I felt tired from having worked for hours.
66. We have 5 English classes a week.
67. Now you are in Italy, you must absolutely see Naples.
68. I saw him at one time or another.
69. Give me a telephone call when you get back.
70. Once you have a plan, you should keep to it.
71. If anything goes wrong, I'll answer for the consequences.
72. Go to blocks along this street, then turn left. 
73. The thief run away at the sight of a policeman.
74. Jim didn't work hard enough so he failed the exam.
75. In the factory, all the equipment was up to date.
76. This music reminds me of that girl.
77. Had he taken his doctor's advice, he might not have died.
78. This right must be protected at all cost.
79. It's difficult to finish the work in a day.
80. The Dow plunged 35 points then bottomed out.
81. What time will the bus pick us up?
82. The fence was not high enough to keep the wolves out.
83. The tree cast a shadown across the road.
84. Some children are swimming in the sea.
85. The summer vacation ended all too soon.
86. We insist that his project be carried out immediately.
87. Is there a bus that goes to the mall?
88. I must apologize to you for breaking the vase.
89. The law enables us to receive a annuity.
90. Not known what to say, she remained slient.
91. She regretted deeply when she looked back on her life.
92. I really appreciated all the trouble you've gone to.
93. Well, personally, I don't really care for it
94. Judging from his accent, he must be from Texas.
95. If anything, the economy in our company is going up.
96. Kate thought the teacher's lecture was dull, boring and endless.
97. We received an acknowledgement of our letter.
98. That country economic situation changes from day to day.
99. Look up the words in your dictionary.
100. Do you know what time the shop is closed?
