1. That aircraft company deals in freight only.
2. There are footprints of a cat on the table.
3. Just a moment, I haven't made up my mind.
4. It's obvious that drive had not been carefull enough.
5. The house stands out because of its usually shape.
6. Bad weather discourage them from going on a picnic
7. How would you like to join a dance club.
8. You should drive at safe speed.
9. Not all my classmate like the food in the caferia.
10. The ball hit him on the left side of the head.
11. It was used only from time to time.
12. The child heard something fell with a crash.
13. I like to know when you can send it out.
14. It was named after the first president.
15. This problem will be solved in the near future.
16. I guess that you cant do it.
17. An emergency may occur at any time.
18. In spite of the rain, the game was not cancelled.
19. I like to spend my holidays reading history books or classics.
20. It was a strange story, but every world of it is true.
21. Cows are more useful then any other animal in this countries.
22. I felt relieved when the all the troubles were taken care of.
23. However fast you may walk, you can't catch with him.
24. This hat is too tight for me.
25. The sperm whale can dive to a depth of 1,000 meters.
26. Not all the sudents were present at the class.
27. We must work as long as we live.
28. I'll give you answer in a day or two.
29. The other waiter hid the bottle I'd opened wrongly.
30. There are a lot of students in the library.
31. Tom looked worried about the result of English test.
32. Can you tell what this word means?
33. The newly married couple walked hand in hand.
34. I was bored because I had seen the movie before.
35. The post office is a good five five kilometers away from here.
36. I'll show you how to catch fish.
37. The question was too difficult to answer.
38. Are you working on this side of city?
39. Have you apply for a password?
40. There were a few children in the classroom.
41. I'd like my coffee after meat.
42. Chris brought her a present and bravely give it to her.
43. How did you get the tickets for the concert.
44. This is the key which I have been looking for.
45. The professor's boring lecture put me to sleep.
46. It's difficult for foreign students to speak English well.
47. No matter what may come, I'll do my duty.
48. My son disarranged the papers on the desk.
49. This camel is so tame that anyone can ride it.
50. The hen was sitting on the eggs in the nest.
51. A glass of orange juice refreshed me.
52. I may as well go out than stay at home.
53. I'll go along with you as far as the station.
54. I do hope you will get well soon.
55. He is tall and handsome young man.
56. We had a good deal of snow last winter.
57. Some people look down on other because they have less money.
58. This medicine, properbly used, will do you a lot good .
59. My computer has got to be useful for something.
60. It's been ten years since I came to this town.
61. This is the same pencil that I lost the other day.
62. I appreciate your coming all the way.
63. I must start no matter how heavily it snows.
64. Jack has saved a lot of money.
65. The boy was lying on his stomach watching TV.
66. The plan was a good one apart from its cost.
67. Many soliders were wounded in the battle.
68. Doctor Smith has a lot of patients.
69. At any rate, I must finished this work by tomorrow.
70. Last night my house was robbed while I was still awake.
71. I'd like to see Mr Smith.
72. All you have to do is to try hard to master English.
73. Gravity binds the planets to the sun.
74. Instead of a shirt, Brian bought a Jacket.
75. I've warned you over and over again not to do it.
76. There are many kinds of animals inside this enclosure.
77. Those officials don't understand finice at all.
78. A welcome party took place in the restaurant.
79. I'd like the most inexpensive room you have for four nights.
80. We have much difficulty in finding the bus stop.
81. It's good to talk thing over before you buy something.
82. Could you open the door for us.
83. But the earthquakes are still as frightening as ever.
84. Can you get to the Mars in the near future.
85. I am sending a copy of my letter to you.
86. The woman to whom you were talking is my sister.
87. You should start as early as you can.
88. The room is too hot for us to work in.
89. Columbus thought he had arrived in India.
90. My uncle broguth a new TV set for us.
91. The lion is the king the jungle.
92. I think I will have one more ice cream cone.
93. Do you have any alternatives to the plan.
94. No one knows the his address but John.
95. I would often go skating on the lake.
96. Tom has always done well in every job he has had.
97. Are you sure this is the right train.
98. He hoped it would lead to a basis of negotiation.
99. How and why did you come here.
100. I'd like to have cake for dessert.
