1. How come Mary is going on a picnic with him?
2. This is picture I took in his house.
3. We saw a mountain in the distance.
4. Take care not to throw away this chance.
5. I would often visit the museum when I lived in London.
6. It's impossible to exaggerate the importance of education.
7. Sometime he has difficult being articulate about his views.
8. But today a lot of young people are following her example.
9. You should make your ideas correspond with reality.
10. It was very dark in Susan's room.
11. If you want to a hotel, look, it's just down there.
12. Learning is one thing, and common sense is another.
13. You have to study hard to catch up with your class.
14. Try as you may, you can do it in a day.
15. Please stay seated until we reach the terminal.
16. You must observe the rule of the club.
17. Whatever you may say, I want to give it up.
18. Dad and Mom went to the Market.
19. While I understand what you say, I can't agree with you.
20. The plays is worth visiting at least once.
21. The doctor insisted that patient get plenty of rest.
22. The engineer demonstrated how to operate the sophisticated system.
23. The rumor spread the all over town.
24. We all agreed that plan made sense.
25. The novel is by far more interesting than that one.
26. We spent the major part of our holidays in our country.
27. He suddenly noticed his wallet was missing.
28. American films are more popular than those of any other country.
29. There was a man and a woman sitting behind me.
30. Jim is learning how to drive a car.
31. The problem was too difficult for me to solve.
32. Your new cat is very becoming on you.
32. The urban population of America is increasing.
33. It took them two years to build the house.
34. The lady's funeral was held at the local church.
35. See hello to your father for me.
36. Our team competed with a powerful rival.
37. Everybody wished he had been elected governor.
38. Our plan will call for a lot of money.
39. Would you like to turn it down a little.
40. I like it better now that I'm used to it.
41. The old man asked me the time.
42. The writer is bringing out a new book next month.
43. Show me the way to the bus stop.
44. Let's see what's happening in this big country.
45. Mary likes skiing the best of all.
46. It's an hour's drive from here to there.
47. Is there any space for one more person.
48. I'm going to have John repair my watch.
49. This is the picture of his own painting.
50. The girl is getting over mountains of difficulties.
51. This big gate is disproportionate to the small garden.
52. You'll get a clear picture with this antenna on the roof.
53. She is intent on going to New York to study fashion.
54. The old house stands on the cliff.
55. We asked for the payment of his debt.
56. Becuase surrouding was so dark, he could not see anything.
57. It's difficult to feel at home in the foreign language.
58. The official was suspected of accepting bribes from the constructing companies.
59. The last time I saw Kent, he was very well.
60. Neither you or your brother is wrong.
61. The politician lost his position in the end.
62. Her last question is about her other interest.
63. Tom called to her across the street.
64. This is the lost and found office.
65. If it were not for air and water, nothing could live.
66. Not having seen her before, I didn't know her.
67. However you do it, the result will be the same.
68. Arriving at the station, I found the train had already left.
69. Don't walk so fast, I can't keep with you.
70. You couldn't pick a finer medical school than Michigan.
71. You may as well begin at once.
72. Be sure to telephone by Friday, ok?
73. Viewed from a distance, the island looked like a cloud.
74. Lisa has a house which has two rooms.
75. Reading kills time at a train trip.
76. We work on every day of the week except Sunday.
77. Due to bad weather, the plane arrived three hours late.
78. You don't need to go unless you want.
79. Choose the color you like the best.
80. Not only Bill but also is crazing about computer.
81. The sence was clearly print in my memory.
82. The latest issue of the magazine will come out next Monday.
83. You should make sure the fact before you write something.
84. Education is one the the most aspect of life.
85. It's really quite a good story.
86. Can you explain how this machine works.
87. There are more stars in the sky than I can count. 
88. Have you ever had cheese with apple pie?
89. Kent was frightened to see the big dog.
90. Such a teacher may as well retire from his school.
91. Why is she looking at as though she knows me.
92. There is only one hospital in the town.
93. Did you know that he passed away two years ago.
94. We need to take care of this immediately.
95. We do you prefer? Apples or bananas.
96. I want this work completed by two o'clock tomorrow after noon.
97. It is outrageous you should spend so much money.
98. The explanation is by no means satisfactory.
99. After I locked all the doors, I went to bed.
100. The dog was sleeping on the mat.