Mom: What smell, William?
Son: The chicken wings are burnt. Victoria will have dinner with me tonight. I want to cook some dishes for her.
Mom: But you can't let your girlfriend eat burnt chicken wings
Son: I'm not a good cook
Mom: I'll help you.
Son: You're awesome mom
Mom: Let's start
Son: I'm going to cook an appetizer, a main course and a dessert.
Mom: Do you have shrimp.
Son: Yes, I have.
Mom: Let's peel and devein shrimps.
Son: Okay mom.
Mom: We'll cook a Party Shrimp for appetizers.
Son: Great.
Mom: Now you thinly slice a garlic clove
Son: Thinly slice?
Mom: Then we need a bowl.
Son: Here we are.
Mom: Put one tablespoon of olive oil in a bowl. Add one teaspoon brown sugar, one teaspoon lemon juice, one garlic clove, thinly sliced. Then add half teaspoon paprika.
Son: And ...? what should I add
Mom: Let me remember. Ah... half teaspoon dried basil. And add a quarter teaspoon pepper. Finally add peeled andy deveined shrimp. Now toss to coat by your hand.
Son: I do it.
Mom: Then refrigerate for two hours.
Son: After two hours, what will we do with those shrimps.
Mom: Place shrimp on a baking sheet.
Son: Broil them turn pink.
Mom: Three to four minutes on each side.
Son: You're the best, mom.
Mom: Thank you.

Mom: Now the main dish.
Son: I want to make grilled chicken wings.
Mom: Do you have any other chicken wings.
Son: Of course I have.
Mom: Great. First season, the chicken wings.
Son: What should I add.
Mom: Salt and pepper.
Son: Okay, mom.
Mom: Bake for 40 to 50 minutes depending on their size flipping once after the first 20 minutes.
Son: sure mom
Mom: Meanwhile i'll make the sauce. Melt the butter with the garlic on the stove, then add spices and stir the sauce.
Son: The sauce looks delicious.
Mom: When the wings are done dip them in the sauce
Son: Then we'll have grilled chicken wings?
Mom: Yes.

Mom: What is victoria's favorite dessert?
Son: She likes pancakes?
Mom: Let's do it. ... Put two eggs three quarter cup milk one teaspoon vanilla in the bowl now i whisk eggs milk and vanilla together
Son: i want to do something
Mom: you will sift flour and sugar into a large bowl 2 cups flour and 1 3 cup sugar
Son: yes master chef two cups flour and 1 3 cup sugar where's sugar ah i see

Mom: i'm done how about you william
Son: i'm done too
Mom: now add this mixture and whisk until just combined
Son: i'll do it
Mom: okay
Mom: i'll eat a non-stick frying pan over medium heat grease pan with butter are you done william
Son: here you are
Mom: okay we use quarter cup mixture per pancake cook for about one to two minutes then flip the other side and cook until cooked
Son: that's so great
Mom: yeah
Son: making cakes is easy eat pancakes with maple syrup
Mom: yes you can have extra strawberries and blackcurrants
Son: perfect
Mom: your girlfriend will love it
Son: i hope so anyway thanks mom
Mom: good luck with your dinner

V: Good evening.
W: Welcome to our restaurant.
V: I already have a reservation
W: May i know your name
V: Victoria.
W: Please follow me
V: Thank you
W: Tonight we have a shrimp party for appetizers. The main course is grilled chicken wings. the dessert is pancakes
V: wonderful
W: And mr william wants to say that you are very beautiful tonight
V: please tell him i want to say thank you
W: i will orange juice for you and coffee for Mr. William
V: i'll start with the appetizer
W: how do you feel ma'am
V: it's so delicious i like it
W: and i like you
V: i know
W: hope you enjoy the grilled chicken wings. we've made for you
V: It really suits my taste. I'd like to meet the chef
W: Oh, one minute ma'am.

W: I'm a master chef. Nice to meet you
V: Hello, master chef. I love your food
W: And i love you
V: Oh, I'm so sorry I have a boyfriend
W: He's lucky. Please try the dessert.
V: Okay. The cake tastes salty. Is that the new recipe?
W: Salty? Oh no. Looks like i confused the salt pot with the sugar pot
V: It tasted strange but delicious
W: Really.
V: Yes, when will Mr. William arrive
W: Oh, one minute, ma'am.
W: Sorry, I'm late. The traffic is so bad.
V: Thank you for your dinner.
W: Do you like it.
V: I like it. Especially the pancakes. 
W: Let's have dinner.
V: Okay.
W: Oh, my God. Coffee is too salty.
V: That's right because you added salt.
W: Oh.

