When mom is home.

Dad: Wake up time, honey. What do you think we should eat for breakfast? ... Lisa?
Son: Mom, what do we have for breakfast today? ... Mom?
Dad: Morning, son.
Son: Morning, Dad.
Dad: Do you see Mom anywhere?
Son: No, Dad. Do you think  Mom is going to the supermarket. Or exercising in the park?
Dad: I don't think. She will usually prepare breakfast before leaving.
Son: Look at the note on the fridge, Dad.
Dad: Let me see. ... Dear my son's father and my husband's son.
Son: Is it meant to be sent to you and me?
Dad: Her "Dear" style is still the same after all these years.
Son: Is it a letter from Mom?
Dad: yes, this is definitely a letter from your Mom. I will be late home tonight, because something has just come up at my Mom's house and I'm needed there. Breakfast is prepared and it is in the fridge.
Son: Yeah, I'm so hungry.
Dad: Remember to heat food in the microwave before eating.
Son: What else? Dad?
Dad: I need both of you  to do me a favor.
Son: I have a bad feeling.
Dad: Please help me with the housework. Love you too, Lisa.
Son: Oh! Housework. What should we do now, Dad?
Dad: We need to help Mom with the housework
Son: OK, Dad!
Dad: Let's share the housework and do it together. Okay?
Son: Sure, Dad. It's no big deal. What do we start with.
Dad: Let's see, we'll start with our breakfast, first.
Son: Agree.
Dad: Start to work.
Son: Wait, Dad. What do I need to do?
Dad: Frist you will sweep the floor. I will do the laundry.
Son: OK, Dad.
Dad: Are you ready?
Son: I'm ready.
Dad: Let's warm up before cleaning up the house. ... What's wrong, son?
Son: Do you where the feather duster is?
Dad: Is it not in the live room?
Son: No!
Dad: Check the stock.
Son: I did, it's not there.
Dad: Let's find it together.
Son: It isn't in the kitchen.
Dad: It isn't in the live room.
Son: It isn't in the bath room.
Dad: It isn't in my room.
Son: It's not in the garden.
Dad: Where is it?
Son: Oh, I saw it.
Dad: Finally.
Son: What's next, Dad? I took out the trash.
Dad: Watch out, son. Take off your shoes. I'm mopping the follor.
Son: Oh, sorry, Dad. I think I'll dust the furniture.
Dad: Good idea, son.
Son: Are you done?
Dad: How about you?
Son: Almost done, Dad.
Dad: Wait. Why is there so much dust on the follor.
Son: Because I am dusting the furniture.
Dad: Oh, no. My floor.
Son: Oh, no. I understand. We should dust the furniture before mopping the floor.
Dad: Yes. I guess I must mop the floor again.
Son: Be strong, Dad.
Dad: Your mom is truly the most amazing woman in the world.
Son: Exactly. Mom has been doing these household chores for many years.
Dad: These household chores are really hard.
Son: Right. I was so tried. Mom is a wonderful as a wonder woman. Mom prepares breakfast, lunch and dinner every day.
Dad: The house is alway clean and tidy. The clothes are always fragrant and ironed. She did everything.
Son: I want to say thank her for what she did.
Dad: Me too. We should thank her and give her a big hug when she comes back.
Son: I agree with you.
Dad: Is there any housework waitting for us?
Son: We need to relax, Dad.

Dad: You need to slow down or your car might break down.
Son: No way, Dad. I'll catch up with you.
Dad: Let's see.
Son: Oh, my car.
Dad: What do you want to eat for dinner.
Son: I came up with an idea.
Dad: What's it.
Son: We will prepare dinner for Mom.
Dad: Great idea. Let's cook spaghetti and egg tomato soup.
Son: How about spinach salad and fried chicken, Dad?
Dad: So how about a hearty dinner? We'll have spaghetti, egg tomato soup, spinach salad and fried chicken.
Son: That's good. Mom will be surprise.
Dad: Let's start.
Son: Hold on, Dad. Let's play again.
Dad: Okay.

Dad: Let's cook spaghetti first. We need a large pot.
Son: Here.
Dad: Pour water into the pot.
Son: Too much water, Dad.
Dad: Maybe we just need half.
Son: I'll boil eggs for the spinach salad.
Dad: Okay, son.
Son: When can I turn off the stove?
Dad: I think when the pot runs out of water.
Son: Do you know how to make sauces.
Dad: No, I'll try. ... Taste it
Son: Umm..., Let's too bland.
Dad: I'll fix it. ... Extra salt and stir it again. John, try it again.
Son: Oh, it's better. It's okay, Dad. Add fresh basil and grated cheese, the color looks good.
Dad: What's the smell
Son: Burning smell. Oh! My eggs. I'll make a spinach salad. Add tomatoes and red onions. Now sugar and salt. ... How is it?
Dad: Oh, it's bad sorry, son, but it's bad.
Son: Dad I know it's bad. ... Grandma, I need your help. I'm making a spinach salad. I've put spinach Tomatoes, red onions, eggs sugar and salt, but it doesn't taste like a salad at all
Grandma: Try adding three tablespoons of red wine vinegar.
Son: okay, Grandma.
Grandma: Is it better
Son: My dad said it's good, Grandma. Thank you, Grandma.
Dad: we don't have any chickens
Son: What do we cook instead.
Dad: We have bacon. Shall we fry eggs and bacon.
Son: Okay, Dad
Dad: Did you have a crush on any girl at school.
Son: Why do you ask?
Dad: Don't be shy. Tell me I won't tell Mom
Son: Her name is Anastasia
Dad: What a beautiful name
Son: Oh, Dad. Our bacon.

Mom: Is anybody at home?
Son: Welcome back.
Mom: Thank you.
Son: We have prepared a surprise for you
Mom: a surprise
Dad: This is for you, honey
Mom: Thanks, honey. I have to say that I'm really surprised.
Son: I and Dad prepare it for you. Do you like it.
Mom: Of course I like it. Let's see. We have spaghetti, eggs and bacon, tomato soup and spinach salad with four eggs.
Son: Mom, taste them.
Mom: It's pretty good, not bad. 
Son: Dad, I remember I haven't washed the spinach yet.
Dad: This is our secret don't tell Mom. ... Is your trip okay, honey?
Mom: Yeah, everything's okay. My mom pretended to be sick because she wanted to see me.
Dad: Oh!
Mom: It scared me. But it made me realize that I should be spending more time with Mom and I really miss her. 
Dad: Luckily your mom is fine.
Mom: Yes.
Son: I also realized that this house would be nothing without you, Mom.
Dad: John and I struggled with housework and cooking all day. 
Son: They are not easy at all. I'm sorry for not helping you before.
Mom: It's okay, son. I love you, so I can do it for you. 
Son: I love you too. So I can do it for you too, Mom. From now on, I'll help you with the housework.
Dad: Because this is our home. Let's share the housework together.
Mom: That's sweet.
Son: I love you Mom.
Dad: I love you Lisa.
Mom: I love you too.
