Tracy: Hey, Maggie.
Maggie: Good afternoon, Tracy. 
Tracy: What are you doing?
Maggie: Nothing, what's up
Tracy: Look what I have.
Maggie: What are they, Tracy?
Tracy: I have two tickets to the kids fashion show.
Maggie: It is a nice show. When is it?
Tracy: On Friday, would you like to go with me on Friday
Maggie: Of course, I would love to.
Tracy: Right, what a wonderful show. I am dreaming to take part in it when I was a kid.
Maggie: I used to. It was an extremely amazing experience
Tracy: As an audience or as a model.
Maggie: As a model. I used to be a kid model.
Tracy: Really so you used to run for the catwalk at the kids fashion show.
Maggie: Yes, I did.
Tracy: Oh my God. It's so amazing. You are a star.
Maggie: My mom sent me to a fashion club. Then I took part in it with them. But you know all the kids there were super cool.
Tracy: How were they?
Maggie: Their outfits were unique. They walked on the runway professionally.
Tracy: Was. That show monumental.
Maggie: Yes. I remember there were some celebrities coming.
Tracy:  I'm so excited. Do you remember any highlights of that night.
Maggie: Absolutely yes. It was the winter collection part. Everyone expected it so much. And Sam, he was also one of my club members.

Woman A: Hey, that is Sam. He is wearing the main items of the collection.
Maggie: I know. He will be the star of today's show.
Woman A: Wow. Look. He looks matching with all his outfits. 
Maggie: It looks like being made for himself. 

Woman A: Oops! Oh, my God.
Maggie: What happens?
Woman A: He fell down.
Maggie: No worries. He can do it.
Tracy: Oh my gosh. So what did he do exactly?
Maggie: He posed super cute after falling down. The audience applauded him a lot. Then he stood up and continued walking.
Audience A: Wow. The boy is so cute.
Audience B: Yeah. There are not many kids can do like him
Tracy: Wow. How professional he is.
Maggie: At that time, many news wrote about his fault and praised him.
Maggie: You are the best. Sam.
Woman A: Wow. What a great performance.
Sam: Thanks.

Tracy: Has he been a model so far.
Maggie: No. But sometimes he is still booked for some lookbook.
Tracy: What a pity. We lost a talent. Do you still keep in contact with him.
Maggie: Yes. We still keep in touch.
Tracy: Do you have his picture. I'm so curious about him.
Maggie: Yes, I have. Let me show you.
Tracy: Wow. Until now he is still cute.
Maggie: That's right. When he was a kid, he was even cuter.
Tracy: Are there any other things you were impressed with that show? 
Maggie: They are a well-coordinated team and a well-designed program.
Tracy: You make me really exciting about Friday night. 
Maggie: That's all I remember. I'm looking forward to the friday night show.
Tracy: Yeah. Kids are always cute.
Maggie: what time does the show start?
Tracy: At 7 p.m. But I think we should come soon.
Maggie: Cool! Can you pick me up?
Tracy: Okay. So I will drive.
Maggie: Great. Thank you so much for inviting me.
Tracy: You are welcome. I am happy that I have someone to go with.
