1. Does someone here speak Japanese.
2. I received your letter.
3. He didn't say a world.
4. He speaks French.
5. He's very angry with you.
6. You must pay attention to him.
7. Have you ever been to Africa?
8. She is practicing the voiling now?
7. How long is he going to Japan.
10. This newspaper is free.
11. Show me another camera.
12. We had a very hot summer this year.
13. Are they Japanese?
14. You give the book to whoever wants it.
15. I don't feel like eating out this evening.
16. I am 16 years old.
17. Would you please stop talking.
18. I'm learning music.
19. Elephants live in Asia and Africa.
20. The cake is sweet.
21. He spoke as though nothing had happened.
22. He is a clever boy.
23. Now stop crying.
24. Could you bring a pilliow and blanket, please.
25. Be quiet, or the baby will wake up.
26. Do you know when she will come?
27. The dog was digging a hole.
28. When do you play tennis.
29. Is this ball yours or hers.
30. Excuse me, but may I open the window?
31. It's secret.
32. I heard someone calling my name.
33. I love this picture.
34. No news is good news.
35. I like to call my parents.
36. The boy acknowledge having lied.
37. What did the doctor say.
38. This beer is not cold enough.
39. You left your lights on.
40. I wanted red shoes.
41. I can't sleep.
42. I bought it.
43. A strong wind was blowing.
44. This is my dog.
45. He is afraid of becoming sick.
46. It may rain tomorrow.
47. Wash your face.
48. He seems honesty.
49. I've caught a cold.
50. He lives next to me.
51. This is their house.
52. She plays the guitar.
53. The dog walked acrossed the street.
54. Few people can speak a foreign language perfectly.
55. This is an automic door.
56. Don't turn off the light.
57. You have a little fever today, don't you?
58. I know none of them.
59. It's likely to rain today.
60. He was right after all.
61. What a beautiful flower!
62. They have two daughters.
63. My dream is to be a firefighter.
64. I fell in love with at first sight.
65. I can swim well.
66. You look very tired.
67. I look for the key.
68. Answer the phone.
69. Somebody is playing the panio.
70. Choose between these two.
71. Whe I came home, John was studying.
72. Is this your trip aboard?
73. This house needs painting.
74. It's unusally for him to get up early.
75. He walked home.
76. I don't like this watch.
77. Please make the bed.
78. Come to my house this afternoon.
79. Don't be so angry.
80. I haven an earache.
81. Close your eyes, please.
82. I don't like her.
83. I mean no harm.
84. There are not intersted in saving money.
85. My uncle gave an camera.
86. The meeting, in short, was a waste of time.
87. I felt very happy.
88. Bread is made from wheat.
89. May I help you?
90. This is what I waiting for.
91. I have been studying for two hours.
92. He began running.
93. You will study at home.
94. The box is almost empty.
95. He is a good voilinist.
96. I have many friends in foreign countries.
97. What's your daughter's name.
98. Have you called her yet.
99. I want someone to talk to.
100. He sent a card to Mary.

