1. Wouldn't you like another glass of beer.
2. Her face turned red.
3. Nothing is missing.
4. They're pretty.
5. He came back from America.
6. I caught three fish yesterday.
7. She adores cats.
8. Who broke the vase.
9. I can't do anything else.
10. Would you lend you me your pend.
11. I would like to go fishing, if possible.
12. She reluctantly went by herself.
13. I must visit my friend in the hospital.
14. Due to bad weather, the plane was late.
15. I saw him just now.
16. I'm from Singapore.
17. Where should we go?
18. She is a wealthy woman.
19. It's not so far.
20. I wonder if she will marry him.
21. How much is this tie?
22. The weather forcast is not necessarily reliable.
23. He is a student at a high school.
24. My father insisted we should go.
25. She has been absent from school for five days.
26. Tommorrow is my day off.
27. I am counting on you.
28. Do you have one.
29. This is a very old book.
30. My room faces east.
31. He gave up smoking two years ago.
32. I visited the village where he was born.
33. I like skiing very much.
34. Have you ever seen the a kangaroo?
35. What is the difference between A and B?
36. He has got a good camera.
37. All of my friends like soccer.
38. He has no children.
39. That's what we want to know.
40. I'd like to send this package to Japan.
41. English is easy to learn.
42. You'd better not go there.
43. Here is my bycycle.
44. The airplan soon went out of sight.
45. He returned from Holland in June.
46. Talking in the library is not allowed.
47. Have you seen my glasses anywhere.
48. Every door in the house is locked.
49. Your dog always barks at me.
50. Please turn on the TV.
51. Everybody likes him.
52. I'd like to see you again next week.
53. Please close the door quitely.
54. These books are ours.
55. I'll wait for you.
56. What did you talk about?
57. I haven an allergy to milk.
58. Were you busy yesterday?
59. I'm going to buy a new car.
60. Tom was sick in bed last Sunday.
61. These aren't my books.
62. This song is very popular in Japan.
63. Which do you perfer, apples or bananas?
64. I had breakfast at 7:30.
65. Hey, where are you going?
66. He knows a lot of people.
67. Don't make the same mistake again.
68. I don't like coffe.
69. Whose room is this.
70. Don't ask me for money.
71. Thank you for today.
72. This room doesn't get a lot of sun.
73. We've already done my work.
74. I have no money to buy the dictionary.
75. Is it hard to speak English.
76. He has been studying for two hours.
77. My telephone is out of order.
78. I need some pager.
79. He died recently.
80. Physics is my favoriate subject.
81. He ran as fast as he could.
82. No matter where you go, I'll follow you.
83. I hurried in order to catch the first train.
84. Tom is eager to buy a new car.
85. Have you eaten lunch yet?
86. Will you please call me this evening?
87. We lost the game.
88. He can drive a car.
89. Where do you want to go?
90. It is very cold today, isn't it?
91. The Netherlands is a small country.
92. He was at home.
93. I'm tied up at the office.
94. The work is now in progress.
95. He comes round once a week.
96. The printer needs paper.
97. He is always with me.
98. Thank you in advance.
99. The hat is mine.
100. You were wrong after all.