1. He traveled all over the world.
2. Would you like another apple.
3. They are all the same.
4. My brother was killed in a traffic accident.
5. She rejected my proposal.
6. I had hoped to save more money.
7. I learned a lot from him.
8. Don't spill the beans.
9. She'll do it in 24 hours.
10. I object to her going there alone.
11. He didn't anwser my question.
12. I want to eat something.
13. He is very young.
14. The pain is getting worse.
15. I returned home by train.
16. It was so dark that he could hardly see.
17. He plays golf on weekends.
18. He is introverted.
19. Is he your teacher.
20. Every student has access to the library.
21. I have to iron my shirt
22. Visitor may not feed the animals.
23. Does this bus go to the beach.
24. She can't swim
25. Were you playing tennis yeasterday morning?
26. Whose is this book?
27. She stayed at hotel for serval days.
28. He is taking a walk.
29. I have a bad headache.
30. I'm planning to study tonight.
31. Don't forget to write to me.
32. Please take one.
33. I want you to tell me the truth.
34. Not all of us can speak English.
35. He doesn't seem to be an American.
36. Read after me.
37. I wish I could fly like bird.
38. He's always been kind to me.
39. That kind dress is now in fashion.
40. I need a new bicycle.
41. I got accquainted with her in France.
42. It seems warm outside.
43. I didn't go to school last month.
44. Were you out last night?
45. You will nerver realize what I went through.
46. My sister is shorter than you.
47. Will you have another a cup of milk.
48. Please pass me the sugar.
49. I'm terriably hungry.
50. We usually have lunch at noon.
51. This is a book.
52. He explained the matter to me.
53. I don't like this sweater.
54. My hobby is collecting coins.
55. He owns his success to his parents.
56. I'm sorry, I dropped my knife.
57. I can't do it.
58. My car was stolen last night.
59. I'll give you a prescription.
60. Why did you do that.
61. I stayed up late last night.
62. Everybody loves music.
63. Stay home so that you can answer the phone.
64. I'm coming.
65. We had lunch at noon.
66. I'm tried of reading.
67. I have an idea.
68. He can swim well.
69. They made me go there.
70. I need to get some sleep.
71. There is no hope of success.
72. How long have you known her.
73. What did you do on Sundays.
74. She turned down my offer.
75. Did you have a good time yesterday.
76. It's a long way from here to school.
77. Count me in.
78. I'm free now.
79. Let me handle this.
80. That's his specialty.
81. She went from London to Paris.
82. What time will dinner be served?
83. I prefer meat to fish.
84. He feels very happy.
85. He carryed a bag ful of apples.
86. English is diffcult to learn.
87. Tom likes to play baseball.
88. The plane flew over the mountain.
89. You'd better not go.
90. It's a pity that you can't come.
91. By the way, where are you from?
92. Tell me what you want.
93. The telephone rang serval times.
94. Can you speak French.
95. Everybody wants to be happy.
96. I'll call again later.
97. Give me a hand with this bag.
98. Can I use this bike.
