1. Would you please write your name here?
2. It'll snow tomorrow.
3. He stopped the car.
4. Is he right?
5. He became rich.
6. You must keep your room clean.
7. That boy is running.
8. He plays soccer.
9. You can go to the station by bus.
10. My wife is preparing dinner right now.
11. He accepted the job.
12. He is two years older than Mary is.
13. He stopped to talk to them.
14. As a matter of fact, it is true.
15. Time flies like an arrow.
16. We depend on you.
17. He has a very expensive watch.
18. May I go to the toilet.
19. Do be afriad to make a mistake when speaking English.
20. My brother sends you his regards.
21. These products are selling like hot cakes.
22. This book isn't worth reading.
23. I can understand him perfectly.
24. My sister is having a baby in June.
25. I hope my dream will come true.
26. I am happy.
27. How long did them live in England.
28. It snowed in Osaka.
29. I'm gaining weight.
30. Please follow me.
31. They have English lessons three times a week.
32. May I go to the movies tonight?
33. My sister takes paino lessons twice a week.
34. Make a copy of this report.
35. They visit us from time to time.
36. I helped her wash dishes.
37. Could you sign here.
38. Don't drop that cup
39. I saw a cat running after the dog.
40. I slept nine hours.
41. My house is near the station.
42. There is an orange on the table.
43. Could you drive more slowly.
44. Your bath is ready.
45. Please do it quickly.
46. What would happen?
47. Here's some water.
48. Paris is the capital of France.
49. I regret having said so.
50. Do you see him often.
51. She told me she known my brother.
52. Let's split the bill.
53. He played tennis.
54. I quit smoking two years ago.
55. I've met him on serval occasions.
56. Why don't you come to the movie with you?
57. He often goes to Tokyo.
58. I waited for her for a long time.
59. Do it right now, before you forget.
60. She can play the panio very well.
61. Your dreams have came true.
62. My father smokes.
63. I often see him.
64. Are seats available
65. His English is quite good.
66. I guess that she if 40.
67. He asked if she known him.
68. I'd like to see the doctor soon.
69. I'm sorry to hear that.
70. He is trusted by his parents.
71. I can read Spanish easily.
72. Do as you like.
73. Our children like dogs, but I prefer cats.
74. Where will you have lunch today?
75. I'm from Tokyo.
76. Nothing remained in the refrigerator.
77. She is a very good teacher.
78. Let me see it.
79. I've lost my watch.
80. Come again tomorrow.
81. She has a daughter who is a pianist.
82. It looks like snow.
83. She kept him waiting for a long time.
84. My father's hobby is fishing.
85. I unusally take a bath for going to bed.
86. My father died of lung cancer.
87. I shouldn't get up so early.
88. He knocked his knee against the chair.
89. It almost never rains here.
90. I bought a few eggs and a little milk.
91. This flower is beautiful, isn't it.
92. Take good care of yourself.
93. we're going to have a test today.
94. The supermarket opens at 10:00.
95. I don't like cheese very much.
96. It's not my fault.
97. The brake didn't work.
98. I don't know French.
99. She refused his proposal.
100. I'll be absent tomorrow.
