1. Do you know the reason?
2. I want to a tie to with this suit.
3. He usually gets up at six.
4. I am beginning to remember it.
5. Do you like black cats.
6. I'll be here from Monday to Thursday.
7. I was not as strong as my father.
8. I like travel by myself.
9. I play video games.
10. You look pale today.
11. Would you please turn down the TV.
12. I'd like to see your sister.
13. I wish I earnd more money.
14. How long will you stay here.
15. You are no younger than I am 
16. Does this hurt?
17. She got up at 7:00 in the morning.
18. Prices continued to raise.
19. Do you call your friend in Canada.
20. You like English, don't you?
21. I asked him to start at once.
22. He was robbed of all his money.
23. Will you help me with my homework?
24. This problem is difficult to solve.
25. May I try it on.
26. I've got to go now.
27. The bus can hold fifty people.
28. He went to a fruit store first.
29. We save cloud above the mountains.
30. We will keep it for you until you leave.
31. Where is it built?
32. I went for a walk in the park
33. The girls began to laugh.
34. He has his own car.
35. I can't check my mail, because the server is down.
36. will you stay at home.
37. I went there yesterday
38. Do you smoke?
39. Anyday will do except Monday.
40. My father maybe wash the car.
41. What time did you arrive there?
42. I hurt my elbow.
43. Can I help?
44. This bridge was built two years ago.
45. You can study here.
46. How did you make it.
47. It seems to me that he is honesty.
48. Tomorrow is mother's day.
49. The island is warm all year.
50. What is in this box.
51. My little brother can read English
52. Are you working?
53. I'm not always at home on Sundays.
54. Have you ever seen Tokyo tower?
55. He is always short of money.
56. I persuaded him to take part in it.
57. The building was built in 1960.
58. That shop has many customers.
59. I used to take a walk every morning.
60. She doesn't smoke.
61. I felt hungry.
62. I will give it to you.
63. Keep an eye on the bags.
64. What's your name?
65. I have a black and a white dog.
66. This box is full of books.
67. Will you show your photo album?
68. This girl's eyes were filled with tears.
69. She left me a note.
70. They greeted me with a smile.
71. I failed the tests.
72. What are you waiting for?
73. When did you see them first.
74. Where is the end of this line
75. Sogar dissolves in water.
76. I want to a good dictionary.
77. She wants to be a designer.
78. I will accompany you.
79. Is there a curfew.
80. Fruits have seeds in them.
81. We didn't know what to do.
82. The train was crowded.
83. Aren't you thirsty?
84. My money was stolen.
85. He is watching TV.
86. Someboys came into the classroom.
87. Black cloth aborbs light.
88. I wish I had a house of my own.
89. Can you come for dinner tonight?
90. He took off his glasses.
91. Are you coming with me?
92. Children should play outside.
93. I'll do my best.
94. You look pale.
95. They're my classmates.
96. I want to learn how to swim.
97. The cat is very cute.
98. I'm too busy to help him.
99. I had all my clothes washed by my monther
100. I nearly made a mistake.