1. We reached London at midnight.
2. Let me go alone.
3. The girl resembled her mother.
4. I wil never tell.
5. My mother is two years younger than my father.
6. What are you going to have.
7. His aunt looks young.
8. Why are you so late.
9. His hands were empty.
10. My uncle has made me what I am today.
11. A horse runs quickly.
12. It took five minutes to get to the station.
13. I'm not in favor in such plan.
14. Please answer the phone.
15. Leave me alone, please.
16. I went to Boston by train.
17. My family goes to Italy every year.
18. He couldn't understand the sentence.
19. Why do you say that.
20. Which company do you work for?
21. You and I have something in common.
22. She follow her brother whevever he goes.
23. The milk tastes sour.
24. He decided to go aboard.
25. You must study hard.
26. I'm still busy.
27. Once more, please.
28. The sooner, the better.
29. We have had plenty of snow this year.
30. It's your turn to sing.
31. We sat down face to face.
32. His temperature is normal.
33. When does it end.
34. Tell me about it.
35. I envy him.
36. There are five pencils here.
37. What does she have?
38. Don't worry about that.
39. The door is open now.
40. Since I was thirsty, I drank water.
41. She likes oranges.
42. I saw him jump.
43. The school is two kilometers ahead.
44. Whater freezes at 0 degrees Centigrade.
45. He is popular among us.
46. I'll tell a secret.
47. What's in the box.
48. We'll arrive at office on time.
49. How's business.
50. This is Mary's dog.
51. The pain was terrible.
52. I play tennis.
53. We have few opportunities to speak german.
54. This book is not for sale.
55. Don't change your mind.
56. He was born in Africa.
57. I call for help
58. Let's take a break.
59. It's on the 8 floor.
60. You can do it, can't you?
61. Our project failed.
62. He advised her to stop drinking.
63. There is no evidence.
64. Do you know how to play chess.
65. I have been ill in bed since last friday.
66. Don't make a mistake.
67. The new museum is worth visiting.
68. This is a big cat I've ever seen.
69. Wash your hands well.
70. Where have you been this week?
71. What is the name of river.
72. You know quite a lot about Sumo.
73. She is about to leave.
74. Does she speak French.
75. I want to go to America some day.
76. I listen to the radio every night.
77. Tom goes to school on foot.
78. I hope that you'll get well soon.
79. I speak a little Japanese.
80. I'm not a student.
81. I neither smoke or drink.
82. I like neither of them.
83. Whose friend is he?
84. Have you finish reading the novel?
85. You're absolutely right.
86. I'd like to have a coffe.
87. I want some water.
88. I want to send this letter to Japan.
89. Come and see me.
90. They went to the room by bus yesterday.
91. I went hiking.
92. He overcame many difficulties.
93. Did she come with him.
94. What do you mean?
95. Are you free this afternoon.
96. The weather is usually hot in July.
97. I'm very glad to see you.
98. Who painted this picture.
99. Time is the most precious thing.
100. I've lost a little weight.