1. Something must be wrong with camera.
2. Could you open the door for us.
3. This is the picture of his own painting.
4. The dog drank some water and went away.
5. Would you like a weekend in Las Vagas?
6. Something must be wrong with the camera.
7. Why did you say such a stupid thing.
8. Please hang on, I'll put him on the phone.
9. I'm sorry, but I didn't catch what you said.
10. If go anywhere, you had better tell your mother first.
11. When you get there, please tell him to come.
12. Why is he looking at me as though he knows me?
13. A welcome party took place in the restaurant.
14. The old man asked me the time.
15. When writing in English, she rarely makes a mistake.
16. The latest issue of the magazine will come out next Monday.
17. If you care to, you may come with us.
18. It's a strange story, but every word of it is true.
19. Because my mother is sick, my father will cook today.
20. That's just what one would expect of him.
21. I ran into an old friend of mine outside of the station.
22. I will try to solve the problem at any rate.
23. The task is so difficult that I can't accomplish it.
24. Nancy went to London as well as Paris.
25. I appreciate your coming all the way.
26. You have to study hard to catch up with your class.
27. They might not become great artist or composers.
28. It is pleasant under the tree.
29. The politian lost this position in the end.
30. This rule is applied to foreigners only.
31. He came in and ask for a cup of coffee.
32. I don't these ink stains will come off.
33. This is the same pencil I lost the other day.
34. The hardness of diamond is such that it can cut glass.
35. The scientist gave a lecture on the structure of universe.
36. You're certain to be moved deeply by the moive.
37. Give me a telephone call when you get back.
38. This is a worst movie I have ever seen.
39. The company has branches in all large cities.
40. The explaination is by no means satisfactory
41. Gravity binds the planes to the sun.
42. I would rather stay at thome than go out.
43. Let's get together and talk it over.
44. Jack is the most intelligent boy in the class.
45. I will see him after I get back.
46. Do you ever smoke at meal times.
47. It took them tow years to build the hourse.
48. If anything, my new job is harder than my old one.
49. Steak and caviar are my favorite dishes.
50. Mike happened to have been absent from school.
51. The number of traffic accidents has increased in recent years.
52. We have enjoyed the peace for more than forty years.
53. Because the  surroundings were so dark, he cloud not see anything.
54. I may as well go out than stay at home.
55. It is abvious that that driver had not not been careful enough.
56. The plan was a good one apart from its cost.
57. However fast you walk, you can't catch up with him.
58. You don't need to go unless you want to.
59. Be sure to telephone by Friday, ok?
60. How and why did you come here.
61. You should think before you begin to speak.
62. If anything, the ecomony in our country is growing up.
63. Kate was frightened to see the big dog.
64. We haven't seen you in the past four years.
65. It's clear that the Mike took the wrong bus.
66. This table is just as large as ours.
67. This is a good exercise to help you lose weight.
68. Mr. and Mrs. Williams adopted a child whose parents were dead.
69. It hardly ever rains in the area.
70. Whatever you may say, I won't give it up.
71. This is the pipeline which supplies the town with gas. 
72. This right must be protected at all costs.
73. But earthquakes are still as frigtening as ever.
74. The bed takes up a lot of room.
75. It was only used  from time to time.
76. How did you get the tickets for the concert.
77. This camel is so tame that anyone can ride it.
78. The lion is the king of the jungle.
79. They accomplished their task without any difficulty.
80. It'll take two hours to go there.
81. The medicine must not be placed within the reach of children.
82. The last time I saw Kent, he was very well.
83. The last question is about her other interest.
84. A boy sleeping in bed seems to be an angel.
85. I think I will have one more ice cream cone.
86. The tree is tallest and oldest in this forest.
87. It's still too early to get up.
88. It's really hard to drive on the bumpy roads around here.
89. We have five English classes a week.
90. I must keep the secret with regard to the fact.
91. You may as well began at once.
92. You may have swelling, but don't worry about it.
93. I'd like to spend our holidays reading historical books and classics.
94. This room is too hot for us to work in.
95. Hurry up, and you will catch the bus.
96. All the family get out of the car.
97. I nerver see this picture without thinking my father.
98. I was about to go out when the phone rang.
99. You should especially not drink on an empty stomach.
100. Can you give me a ride to the station.
