1. Now that you are in Italy, you must absolutely see Naples.
2. I prefer going out to staying at home
3. Few were at the seaside because it was raining.
4. The boy can handle a knife and pork very well.
5. They give good service at that restaurant.
6. We hope you'll understand the difficulty circumstances we're working under.
7. Mike and I had hamburger this afternoon and we talk.
8. There are a number of shops selling foreign books and periodicals.
9. Whatever you see, he won't change his mind.
10. I'm sending a copy of my letter to you.
11. The lady's funeral was held at the local church.
12. Which do you like better, the sea or the mountains.
13. It's good to talk things over before you buy something.
14. She said he is afraid it will be raining.
15. If it were not for air and water, nothing could live.
16. American films are more popular than those of any other country.
17. More often than not, famine is accompanied by plague.
18. Is there any space for one more person?
19. You do such a thing once too often then get punished.
20. The candidate waved his hand to whomever he saw.
21. It's time you went to barber's
22. Such a teacher may as well retire from his work.
23. Bad weather discouraged them from going on a picinic.
24. We must work as long as we live.
25. I usual gas up the car at this service station.
26. The medicine, properly used, will do you a lot of good.
27. The stadium was flooded with baseball fans.
28. This is the key which I have been looking for.
29. I must apologize to you for breaking the vase.
30. That country is rich in mineral resources.
31. What language do they speak in Canada.
32. Lincoln is one of the greatest figures in American history.
33. The story was so complicated that I couldn't follow it.
34. Mt. Everest is 29002 feet above sea level.
35. I really appreciate all the trouble you've gone to
36. English is spoken by many parts of the world.
37. That might be the most painful experience in my life.
38. Stay here and wait for him please.
39. It's difficult to fishish the work in a day.
40. I'll be glad to help you.
41. They are many kinds of animals inside this enclosure.
42. The view from top of that building was magnificent.
43. The plan calls for a lot of money.
44. Are any of these within walking distance.
45. If she should come to Japan, Jane would be very happy.
46. The curve extends point A to point B.
47. It was so hot that she felt like eating ice cream.
48. I wish I were a litter taller.
49. I felt relieved when all the troubles were taken care of.
50. It's really quite a good story.
51. You are not entitled to attend the meeting.
52. I consulted with my father about the plan.
53. This medicine should be taken every three hours.
54. The hen was sitting on the eggs in the nest.
55. Of these two opinions, I prefer the latter to the former.
56. I had my camera repaired at that shop.
57. This dog is trained to save people in the mountains.
58. There were few children in the classroom.
59. The air is bad here. Will you open the window.
60. If you want a hotel, look, it's just down there.
61. The child heard something fall with a crash.
62. Since there was no bus, I had to walk.
63. This music reminds me of that girl.
64. It's time you want to school.
65. This potato chips are good enough to make you want more.
66. This will serve as a check on their work.
67. You should make sure of the facts before you write something.
68. This problem will be solved in the near future.
69. I went through my money in a very short time.
70. What's the best way for me to get a passport.
71. Please state your opinion with relation to this project.
72. There ought to be more buses during the rush hours.
73. While I understand what you say, I can't agree with you.
74. You need not have helped my son with his homework.
75. It began to rain and she got wet.
76. Jim is learning how to drive a car.
77. One sunny day in April, I went out for a walk.
78. Do you feel any pain in your stomach
79. Choose the color you like the best.
80. That tv station is on the air 24 hours a day.
81. He suddenly noticed his wallet was missing.
82. I have to decide not to support the plan.
83. I'm glad that you have returned safe.
84. Tom called to her across the street.
85. I'm sorry, but I dont feel like going out today.
86. He hoped it will lead to a basis for negotiation.
87. Due to bad weather, then plane arrived three hours late.
88. George put a chain on the dog.
89. What must be done is if the plan proves unworkable?
90. They are more stars in the sky than I can count.
91. The girl began to cry at the sight of a dog.
92. Not all my classmates lile the food in cafeteria
93. Not all the students were present at the class.
94. I was bored because I had seen the movie before.
95. Please pick me up by car in front of the hotel.
96. He looked as if he knew all about it.
97. The factory can turn out 200 cars a day.
98. I'm through my work. Let's go out.
99. I play center in the football and basketball.
100. He told me to wash my face.