1. Go two blocks along this street and turn left.
2. Would please turn down the TV a little.
3. I'm uncomfortable in this new shoes.
4. Our sales campaign is successful in a big way.
5. Why can you take things just as they are.
6. This is a very camera I've wanted for a long time.
7. Can you get the Mars in the near future.
8. The cloud opened and sun shone through.
9. At all events we have done our best.
10. I guess you can't do it.
11. Where would you like me to put this?
12. This is the same watch I've lost.
13. I guarantee that this information is correct.
14. In the factory, all the equipment was up to date.
15. The story has come down throuth many years.
16. Why is this book loved by young people.
17. We insist that this project be carried out immediately.
18. You must not park the car in this street.
19. Let's see what's happening in this big country?
20. I had my wallet stolen on my way to the office.
21. Bob brought such good news that they jumped up with joy.
22. He was named after the first American president.
23. Our plan will call for a lot of money.
24. It there a bus that goes to the mall?
25. Take care not to throw alway this chance.
26. Autumn is the best season on hikes.
27. You make mistakes if you do things in a hurry.
28. I can only say that I agree with you.
29. Tom looked worried about the result of hist English test. 
30. This kind of magazine can do harm to young people.
31. In any case, it's no bussiness of yours.
32. This novel is by far interesting than that one.
33. Look up the word for yourself in the dictionary.
34. The balance at the bank stands at 2 million dallors.
35. Tom has always done well in every job he has had.
36. If the telephone rang, can you answer it.
37. My aunt show me how to make good coffee.
38. I can't find it in my desk.
39. Then fence was not high enough to to keep the wolves out.
40. The Dow plunged 35 points and then bottomed out.
41. Our team competed with a powerful rival.
42. How would you like to join the dance club.
43. An alpaca looks like a horse and a camel.
44. The doctor insisted that the patient get plent of rest.
45. At your age, I think so, too.
46. I want to this work completed by 2:00 tomorrow afternoon.
47. Which do you prefer, apples or bananas.
48. This hat is too tight for me.
49. The mother told her daughter to do it herself.
50. I don't want to put her to even a small inconvenience.
51. He parked this car at the end of the street.
52. We saw a mountain in the distance.
53. This is a birthday cake with 12 candles on top. 
54. In spite of the rain, the game was not cancelled.
55. Our company needs someone who is at home in advanced technology
56. There is no use crying over spilt milk
57. Please stay seated until we reached the terminal.
58. This building should be captained as a national heritage.
59. To everyone astonishment, Mike won the first prize in the speech contest.
60. This new curtains don't go well without rugs.
61. That plan will probably failed in the long run.
62. You have to use the money wisely.
63. At any rate, I must finish this work by tomorrow.
64. Twelve people are to appear in a court in Manchester.
65. Austria is about twenty times as large as Japan.
66. You and I are the same age.
67. This stone was so heavy that I couldn't lift it.
68. How come Mary is going on a picnic with him.
67. This is the lost and found office.
68. Don't worry, we will find the answer after all.
69. She is what is called a woman of culture.
70. The official was suspected of accepting bribes from the contruction companies.
71. The new hotel invited the suggestions from the guest.
72. The urban population of the American is increasing.
73. I caught my finger in the door.
74. The nurse recommended that he try walking.
75. The lady that is speaking to that boy is his teacher.
76. We'll take off in a few minutes.
77. The company has three hospitals of its own.
78. It is outrageous that you should spend so much money.
79. You should make the most of your ability.
80. The place is worse visting at least once.
81. The prefessor's boring lecture put me to sleep.
82. Since then, he has put his whole soul into his work.
83. Your new dress becames you very well.
84. The tree cast a shadow across the road.
85. I'd like to know when you can send it out.
86. I'd like to have cake for dessert.
87. The press is interested in his private life.
88. Which shoes are you going to put on.
89. Sonia had a very amused look on her face.
90. Neither you or your brother is wrong.
91. Your new hat is very becoming on you.
92. You must come to the party by all means.
93. There are a lot of students in the library.
94. That work will be finished at the end of this week.
95. The street lined the the trees, provided a vista of the sea.
96. The boy was used to being scolded.
97. The cold north wind was roaring outside.
98. Your win and I cook the dinner for the entire family.
99. I would like to see the Mr Smith.
100. Have you ever had cheese with apple pie.

