1. The building looks down on the whole town.
2. The baby can stand but can't walk.
3. Can you explain how this machine works.
4. Would you lke to turn it down a little.
5. Mary didn't refer to the accident she had seen.
6. What time wil the bus pick us up?
7. If it's not too much trouble, I would like some help.
8. On arriving at the station, I called a friend of mine.
9. You can see the roof fo the house from there.
10. In the meantime, he went to sleep.
11. The river flows between the two countries.
12. The question was too difficult to answer.
13. My son disarranged the paper on the desk.
14. What was it that caused you to change your mind.
15. Have you ever been to an exhibition.
16. The girl is getting over moutains of difficulties.
17. I've warned you over and over again not to do it.
18. I can't study anywhere in my house, it's too noisy.
19. If anything goes wrong, I'll answer for the consequences.
20. I need to find out exactly what went wrong.
21. We made a date to meet soon.
22. Instead of a shirt, Brian bought a jacket.
23. We give foreign tourists the privilege of tax exemption.
24. I like the most inenpensive room you have for four nights.
25. Talk of a election was pure speculation.
26. Thank you for coming all the way in this rain.
27. They deal in fruit and vegetables at that store.
28. It's two miles from here to the station.
29. She's intent on going to New York to study fashion.
30. I saw him at one time or another.
31. Whales are said to have lived on land long ago.
32. Every time I see him, he is similing.
33. Feeling chilly, I turned on the heater.
34. Is this what you've wanted for a long time?
35. We all agree that plan made sense.
36. These goods are greater in quantity than in quality.
37. The more we learned, the better we realized our ingorance.
38. Wherever you may go, you will be welcomed.
39. Please pick me up at the airport at five.
40. It was nothing less than a miracle.
41. A glass of orange juice refreshed me.
42. Weather permitting, let's go on a picnic.
43. However you do it, the result will be the same.
44. Judge from his accent, he must be from Texas.
45. We may as well go at once.
46. Viewed from the distance, the island looks a cloud.
47. Those official don't understand French at all.
48. The man you met at the station is my father.
49. When it comes to dancing, nobody can move like Mike Jackson.
50. He is tall, and handsome young man.
51. The trunk was too heavy for hime to manage.
52. Can you tell me what this word means.
53. You must work hard if you are to succeed.
54. Execute me, but would you kindly lift that box for me.
55. The newly married couple walked hand in hand.
56. Mike's job at home is cleaning the windows.
57. Arriving at the station, I found the train had already left.
58. We had much difficulty in finding the bus stop.
59. In any case, I will call you tomorrow.
60. Columbus believed that the earth was round.
61. He would sooner rather die than work for that man.
62. The sperm whale can dive to a depth of 1000 meters.
63. It's difficult for me to answer the question.
64. The rumer spread all the town.
65. This question in English is anything but easy.
66. Cows are more useful than any animals in this country.
67. In a foreign country, most of use will go through culture shock.
68. Chemic products account for approximately two-thrids of our exports.
69. The burlar tied my hand behind my back with a rope.
70. It was argument of little substance.
71. Jim didn't work hard enough, so he failed his exam.
72. The other waiter hid the bottle I'v opened wrongly.
73. I hope I can manage to make both ends meet.
74. It's a pity that two has no sense of humor.
75. All you have to do is try hard to master your English.
76. The manager of the team quit suddenly.
77. Indeed this card is small, but it is powerful.
78. Why don't you come dance with you?
79. Those present at the concert were surprised by his performance.
80. Last night, my house was robbed while I was still wake.
81. They see that movie is an interesting one.
82. You should start as early as you can.
83. Don't walk so fast, I can't keep up with you.
84. There is no man but loves his home.
85. You'll get a clear picture with this antenna on the roof
86. Sally has been on a diet since last month.
87. Let's playing baseball when the rain stops.
88. Education is one the the most essential aspects of our life.
89. After running up the hill, I was completely out of breath.
90. It's unlikely that such a cool headed person got upset
91. Dad and mother went to the market.
92. Jim is something of an authority on the subject.
93. My sister married a high chool teacher last June.
94. The young man saved the girl from a bunch of hoodlums.
95. Not having seen her before, I didn't know her.
96. Lisa has a house which has two rooms.
97. Doctor Simth is the most knowledgeable expert on that subject.
98. Had he taken the doctor's advice, he might not have died.
99. The coffe was not much to my liking.
100. Tom is more hard-working than any other students in this class.