1. This is the reason I disagree with you.
2. Reading kills time on a train trip.
3. I love the taste when I bite into a juicy peach.
4. This is just what I have been looking for so long.
5. The boy grew up to be a great statesman.
6. He was worn out after hours of work
7. This is the place where she works as a secretary.
8. The boy was lying on his stomach watching TV.
9. Many soldiers were wounded in the battle.
10. I'm going to have John repair my watch.
11. Can't you see a stapler somewhere around there?
12. Why on earth did you give him such a name.
13. I must start no matter how heavily it snows.
14. The teacher speaks good French, not to mention English.
15. I can't put up with that noise any longer.
16. The property was purchased with laundered political money.
17. He may be clever, but he often makes careless mistakes.
18. Both the boy and the girl are clever.
19. It's been 10 years since I came to this town.
20. Somebody has been sleeping on this sofa.
21. Does this bus go to the Hilton Hotel?
22. After I locked all the door, I went to bed.
23. The factory turns out eight hundred motorcycles a month.
24. The boy lost sight of his mother in the crowd.
25. Bob play not only the guitar but also the flute.
26. Well, personally, I don't really care for it.
27. We yawn when we are short of oxygen.
28. We spent the major part of our holidays in the country.
29. If you will help us, we will be very glad.
30. I met with an old friend of mine at the station.
31. We ask for the payment of his debt.
32. Enrique is engrossed in solving mathematical problems.
33. The movie is a stereotyped sob story.
34. What is the capital of the United States 
35. The old house stands on a cliff.
36. Not only Bill but also Steve is crazy about computers.
37. Do you know what time the shop is closed.
38. It was very dark in Susan's room.
39. Do you have any alternatives to the plan?
40. He didn't attend the meeting for that reason.
41. It's not possible to record in this media.
42. The house is not in very good condition.
43. Mary likes skiing the best of all.
44. Entering the room, I found him playing the piano.
45. There are people who don't like the Spinach.
46. This country has an even temperature throughout the year.
47. This tooth has to have a filling.
48. It is a great convenience to live near a station.
49. There are footprints of a cat on the table.
50. Try as you may, you can't do it in a day.
51. Chris brought her a present and bravely gave it to her.
52. Learning is one thing and common sense is another.
53. Jack has saved a lot of money.
54. My father came and open the door.
55. Can I tell me where I am on this map.
56. My uncle brought a new TV set for us.
57. No matter what happens, I am prepared.
58. This computer often goes out of order.
59. Some children are swimming in the sea.
60. We must study the affair as a whole.
61. The English book is too difficult for me to read.
62. Not knowing what to say, she remained silent.
63. The post office is a good five kilometers away from here.
64. You couldn't pick a finer medical school than Michigan.
65. The uniform are different from those of our school.
66. This is the first time I've seen such a dreadful movie.
67. The man standing by the door is a famous singer.
68. We can communicate with each other in many ways.
69. You'd better go to see your family doctor at once.
70. What's your opinion with regard to this matter.
71. The new designs are much better than the old ones.
72. We are suffering from a severe water shortage this summer.
73. He was happy to have passed this examination
74. Just as food feeds the body, so reading feeds the mind.
75. Did you know that he passed away two years ago.
76. I am planning to stay at hotel.
77. If you had not helped to me, I would have failed.
78. I'll finish as quickly as I can
79. Would you show me a less expensive camera than this one.
80. But today a lot of young people are following her example
81. You shouldn't expect thing to be easy.
82. That country's economic stuation changes from day to day.
83. I'll show you how to catch fish.
84. The woman to whom you were talking is my sister.
85. This book is too difficult for me to understand.
86. I'll give you an answer in a day or two.
87. The question is too easy for her to answer.
88. Written in simple English, this book is easy to read.
89. We work on every day of the week except Sunday.
90. You was a gentle and mild-mannered old fellow.
91. Just a moment, I haven't made my mind.
92. No one knows his address but John.
93. Common causes of stress are work and human relationships.
94. The food was strictly fish and chips.
95. She regretted deeply when she looked back on her life.
96. The prisoner was set at liberty yesterday.
97. An emergency may accur at any time.
98. This is the castle which we visited last week.
99. Do any of the members agree with you.