1. It is difficult for foreign students to speak English well.
2. You should eat more or you won't get well soon.
3. This is what we want to know.
4. This is a picture I took last week.
5. That fish travels in a group, don't they?
6. Sometimes he has difficult being articulate about his views.
7. I like it better now that I'm used to it.
8. Are you working on this side of the city?
9. This is a job of my own choice.
10. Look up the words in your dictionary.
11. The brave fireman rescued a boy from the burning house.
12. Dr. Smith has a lot of patients.
13. I like my coffe after the meal.
14. The lake is the deepest in Russia.
15. Whichever you choose, make sure it is a good one.
16. The plant ranges from the north of Europe to the sourth.
17. You should make your ideas correnspond with reality.
18. The dog were sleeping on the mat.
19. My time in school will be one of my happiest memories.
20. Are you sure this is the right train.
21. That teacher is in charge of the third-year class.
22. With more courage, I might have proposed to Mary.
23. Someday, you'll come to realize the importance of saving.
24. The gum adhered to the sole of the shoe.
25. It's about time you were independent of your parents.
26. The writer is bringing out a new book next month.
27. I took it for granted that you knew the whole matter.
28. No matter what may come, I will do my duty.
29. If you run fast, you can catch the train.
30. It's difficult to feel at home in a foreign language.
31. I would often go skating on the lake.
32. There was a man and woman sitting behind me.
33. The scene was clearly printed in my memory.
34. I would often visit the museum when I lived in London.
35. This sone was popular in the 1970s.
36. There is a glass on the table.
37. The law enables us to receive an annuity.
38. Kate thought the teacher's lecture was dull, boring and endless.
39. We had a good deal of snow last winter.
40. It will take me a lot of time to get over my cold.
41. Show me the way to bus stop.
42. After the rain, the sun emerged from the clouds.
43. Mr.Johnson ran fastest of the three.
44. Mike doesn't have to wash his mother's car today.
45. Say hello to your mother for me.
46. We ought to have phoned ahead and reserved a table.
47. We received an acknowledgement of our letter.
48. It seems that Wataru devoted himself to his studies.
49. The boy can not live up the school rules.
50. The clothes soaked in water overnight were heavy.
51. I am only too glad to help you with your work.
52. We can see the island in the distance.
53. No other dog is bigger than this.
54. I'll go long with you as far as the station.
55. I felt tried from having worked for hours.
56. Columbus thought he had arrived in India.
57. I hope I can be of some help to you.
58. All this is visible to numerous observers.
59. The ball hit him on the left side of his head.
60. That aircraft company deals in freight only.
61. The house stood out because of his unusual shape.
62. You must observe the rule of the club.
63. This statue is as large as life.
64. I don't understand the theory at all.
65. The summer vacation ended all too soon.
66. There is only one hospital in the town.
67. Jogging has became the new favorite form of exercise.
68. He has serval times as many books as I.
69. The big gate is disproportionate to the small garden.
70. One third of the earth surface is dessert.
71. We will begin the meeting when Bob comes
72. All the dinner had been eaten before he came (home).
73. The thief ran away at the sight of policeman.
74. There are none of us who do not respect his honesty.
75. The engineer demonstrated how to operate the sophisticated system.
76. Also, if you manufacture any other products, please send information.
77. My compute has got to be useful for something.
78. We need to take care of this immediately.
79. The old doctor gave individual attention to each patient.
80. That is the same color as mine.
81. The accident is reported in today's paper.
82. Some people lookd down others because they have less money.
83. You should drive at a same speed.
84. Once you have a plan, you should keep to it.
85. It is a hour to drive from here to there.
86. I was not familiar with this part of the subject.
87. If only I had a pretty dress like that.
88. The problem was too difficult for me to solve.
89. The box is too bulky to carry.
90. She became scary when she noticed a man following her.
91. I do hope you will get well soon.
92. This is a picture I took in his house.
93. These students were all looking forward to summer vacation.
94. It is impossible to exaggerate the importance of education.
95. Everybody wished he had been elected governor.
96. You may well say so, but I can't agree.
97. Should he be given another chance, he would do his best.
98. We can see distant subjects with a telescope.
99. Have you applied for a passport yet?
100. I would like to order drinks now.
