**Title:**
Learn English Prepositions: Preposition Collocations

**Link:**
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aRXVMJQImSo&list=PLxYD9HaZwsI5C0d8CivHvoI_-0rs8XMfc

hi everybody. Welcome to ingvid.com. I'm Adam. In today's video, I want to answer a very common question that I hear from people from all of you guys in the comments section. 

Why are prepositions so hard? How can I study prepositions.

So today's video is going to give you a bit of an idea of why they're so hard and what you can start doing to try to improve your use of prepositions. Yes. Prepositions do make a big difference because there are very little words, but they can completely change the meaning of an expression or a sentence and so on. 

So the first thing I want to look at are three different ways to approach prepositions. 

One is the direct collocations, words that are working together, that sometimes have a different meaning. So for example, we have in-house with a hyphen. This is going to be used as an adjective. Compared to out-house, which is one word that joins the two words. On the house, and something is housed in something else. So I have four expressions here with "in", "out", "on" and "in" (is housed in) with completely different meanings. And no real way of guessing. And that's the hard part about prepositions. 

So in-house, for example, some companies higher and in-house social media manager, instead of getting somebody outside like a freelancer or to outsource something, they hire somebody full time to run their social media pages or channels. So this person is an in-house employee works inside.

Outhouse, now if you can think of this as an in-house employee, what is an outhouse. Completely I'm sure you can't guess. An outhouse is a toilet. It's a toilet that is actually outside. It's not inside the house. So especially you're going to go camping, or you're going to go to, like some cottage or cabin, a lot of these buildings or a lot of these houses won't have a toilet inside the house. They have a little hut outside or like just basically a box with a hole in the ground. And that's where you go to the toilet. And that is called an outhouse. It's one word. 

So if you think you can guess one and guess the opposite. No. Completely unrelated. So you have to be a little bit careful about that. 

On the house doesn't mean like on top of the house. It actually has nothing to do with house. On the house means free, but usually at a restaurant or a bar or anywhere that charges for a service. So if you go to the bartender, and you chat the bartender up and you have a nice time. The bartender will be nice and say now this drink is on the house, means you don't have to pay for it. The house means the the place ,the establishment, the business. The business will pay for it. They will take the charge. It's on them. Right. So on the house. 

Now here house is different. House is a verb, basically means to be like a container to something. So "something is housed in something" means it is inside this container. Right. 

So now here's one expression, one situation where you have completely unguessable, collocations or idioms in some cases

Now, here I have a few expressions with time.

Now in the first examples, "in time", "on time", "at the time". All of the uses of time are the same and then you have to understand the difference of "in", "on", "at", like you do with other situations with prepositions, especially with time prepositions. 

So if something is in time, if you do something in time. It means before the limit of time that you have. Right. So the project has to be finished in time. 

So that we can start the next phase of it for example. 

It has to finish on time, means at the set time. So in time you have, for example you have this much time to work on it. "In time" means somewhere, here. "On time" means here, at the last part or a specific spot that you set. 

"At the time" means at that specific time, not before or after. Exactly the same , "on time", "at the time", are similar. But you're going to use them differently. A project has to finish on time and at that time or at the time. We will begin phase two. 

So "on time" usually like a deadline, "at the time" is this a specific time you can do whatever you want with. 

So a little bit confusing because the time doesn't change. It's how you're using it with all these other prepositions that changes. 

Then you have "out of time", means time is finished, no wore Time. "By the time",  so at this time or before. Right. "With time", so any pain you have if somebody broke up with you and your heart is broken. With time it will mend. So over some time, over a period of time and I didn't write that here. Over time or with time, things will get better. There's another one, over and with. 

Time out like again we're going to take a little break or a time out in a game, you have a time out where you take a pause. 

Overtime, so there's over the time but when you put them together now you're going beyond the scheduled
time so if you work overtime at work you
finished your 40 hours for the week now
you're working extra in a game that is
finished with a tie they play a little
extra time or a little overtime to
decide
now the scary thing is I can give you at
least another dozen maybe even 20 more
expressions with time
with different prepositions so the key
is just to understand the use of the
word time here you don't need to know
the word house you need to know the
whole expression here you need to use
the word time and then see how it's
being used with the different
prepositions and then as you add more
expressions
you can uh
you cannot start to understand the
actual collocation so if somebody says
to you for example oh it's about time
it's they're not talking about time time
is not the subject of a conversation
it's or it is about time means they're
very frustrated they've been waiting a
long time and ah finally you came it's
about time that you came Etc
so I'll get back to this in a minute and
then there's the last one now agree to
agree with Etc a lot of people confuse
these types of collocations with
phrasal verbs these are not phrasal
verbs these are just collocations where
you're using a certain verb with a
certain preposition for certain purpose
so if you agree too you then you still
agree you agree to do something or you
agree to the demands of the company
means you accept
right but you're generally agreeing with
uh to do something agree with means
share an opinion
or agree with the rules agree with
someone means you share an understanding
that you accept the same thing so very
similar
agree about again now you there's a
specific topic and you have agreement so
the agree doesn't change what comes
after the preposition changes to suit
the purpose right so this is where it
becomes a little bit tricky here the
preposition changes in reaction to time
what and what's Happening Here the
preposition changes in reaction to what
comes after to the purpose or the Target
of the agreement and so on agree on so
we agree on the timing for the project
to be completed for example
so and agree in will generally take
something else you agree in principle
you agree in writing so just we just
because I say I agree with you in a
legal context doesn't mean anything if
we agree in writing means we wrote it
out and both signed it then we have an
agreement right so the reason I'm
showing you the three different ways to
look at prepositions is so that you can
start collecting
these car locations like keep them in a
notebook so you have to study these like
vocabulary
of course know the difference between in
on at four of from Etc over under next
to between
Etc know all of those in their functions
but start collecting collocations that
are idiomatic collocations that are just
collocations and collocations that work
before and after the main verb and also
remember it doesn't have to be a verb it
could be a noun or a verb Right Time Out
agree to the verb the noun the adjective
the preposition start learning all of
these different collocations and then
you'll see that you can start making
different Expressions as well okay and
that's basically it now the main thing
is also to realize that you can a lot of
it comes from just listening to native
speakers or listening to TV shows and
movies start paying attention to the use
of the prepositions and especially in
writing
when you're writing these prepositions
small mistakes can you lead to huge
misunderstandings so make sure you know
how to use them correctly now you can
also go to my other channel
right2top.com and uh you can watch on
YouTube I do have a few lessons showing
you more of these collocations and it'll
help you with your writing as well if
you have any questions about these
please ask them in the YouTube comment
section or in the ingvid.com
comments area take the quiz and come
back soon and we'll do this again and
I'll show you some more interesting
collocations like these see you then