1. You're almost there.
2. I'm not satisfied with company's service.
3. The experiment proved to be success.
4. Will this cover the holiday expense?
5. I forget your telephone number.
6. It's a vicious circle.
7. Could I have an aisle seat, please.
8. The city has many broad streets.
9. Hold on, now.
10. That sounds fun.
11. Tom can be relied on.
12. Where is it.
13. Finally, he carried out his plan.
14. This safe is for keeping valuables.
15. Is andybody there.
16. Good afternoon, students.
17. His comment is out of line.
18. This cotton shirt washes well.
19. It looks good.
20. Turn left and it's on your right.
21. How do you like your Austria?
22. The British government is against the plan.
23. Sorry, I'm late.
24. The pilot described the scene in detail.
25. It's really cool.
26. Tell me what you really feel.
27. We'll go out if the weather clears.
28. Stop your pouting.
29. I stand corrected.
30. Way to go.
31. I warmed myself at the fire.
32. We have an oversupply of clothing.
33. They shirt is the standard size.
34. Feel free to call me anytime.
35. I'm home.
36. Do you make up your mind.
37. Can I go inside.
38. What a surprise.
39. I feel sick.
40. Happy birthday, sir.
41. This area isn't familiar to me.
42. What fun I had.
43. What you said surprise me.
44. How you feel about it.
45. What a coincidence.
46. One of my bags is missing.
47. What was that.
48. Please let me speak first.
49. Let's go home.
50. It's on me tonight.
51. It hurts.
52. They are too numberous to enumerate.
53. Half a loaf is better than none.
54. Call me back.
55. Look at this.
56. Take it easy.
57. I hit my head on the door.
58. What is this.
59. Shall we go?
60. It's not on purpose.
61. That's really something.
62. I hope you like it.
63. Don't hang up.
64. I was dozing off.
65. John must have practiced very hard.
66. Bargain with him.
67. It's anything but big.
68. The girl is afraid of dogs.
69. Each room is equipped with large desks.
70. Do you mind.
71. First things first.
72. Nothing much.
73. She has a good memory, too.
74. Don't underestimate yourself.
75. I want to work this summer.
76. It's chilly.
77. The old man tends to exaggerate.
78. He is an unsung hero.
79. He passed way.
80. I was careless.
81. Do you mind if I join you.
82. Are you free next Saturday?
83. What was your first impression with Syndeny?
84. Fasten the robe to the tree.
85. Can I have a wine list.
86. What's in it?
87. Will you join me?
88. Where were you?
89. I'm all wet.
90. The final was a close match.
91. Stop it.
92. Shall we get a bite in there.
93. Most people can do that.
94. I'm against it.
95. Tom is confused.
96. Do you come here often?
97. That is a new story to me.
98. This will be better than that.
99. I'll have to think about it.
100. I'm completely full.
