1. How long will it take to get there?
2. Don't hesitate to ask for help.
3. Where in Austria did you grew up?
4. Where is it located?
5. How cute?
6. That's very nice of you.
7. Telling lie is a very bad habbit.
8. Will you type this, please?
9. Jack, what's wrong?
10. Neither dress looks very good.
11. It won't last.
12. There is a good reason for it.
13. You should be ready for the worst.
14. This knife is very sharp.
15. I'm not good with numbers.
16. I've heard it.
17. I'm getting hungry.
18. I can't keep with you.
19. Prior to the meeting, they had dinner.
20. Burn this rubbies on the fire.
21. This bridge bears only ten tons.
22. What happened.
23. I can't put with this noise.
24. How beautiful!
25. You should do it like that.
26. Unless it rains, I will go, too.
27. I don't know which button to push.
28. I'll take it.
29. Go for it.
30. Emily likes to play tennis, too.
31. That doesn't make any sense.
32. I'm amazed.
33. That movie was showen on TV
34. Whenever you want is OK.
35. Was it fun?
36. How do you get school.
37. That's not hard evidence.
38. Let me summarize.
39. Nancy can't bear living alone.
40. Don't forget to post the letter.
41. Do you know where it is.
42. I'd like to give it a try.
43. Slight attention can cause a great disaster.
44. It's a deal.
45. What's in them.
46. Can I borrow that for a second.
47. What should I get for dessert?
48. I feel great.
49. It is getting dark outside.
50. There he is.
51. They're Korean inventions.
52. All aboard?
53. Time settled down after he got married.
54. That's revolting.
55. This stopper does not fit the bottle.
56. This is between you and me.
57. The foreigners speak Japanese fairly well.
58. Greeting from Brazil.
59. We have run out of cream.
60. Thanks for asking.
61. After you, guys. 
62. The rule reads in two ways.
63. That's romantic.
64. I don't like neither of them.
65. I almost forgot.
66. Put this sentence into English.
67. Are we allowed to take pictures here.
68. I've heard so much about you.
69. There is no time like the present.
70. This is all he has to do.
71. Is there a restroom near here?
72. This cheese has a sharp taste.
73. I'll order that.
74. What about you.
75. Things are looking up.
76. This car runs on natural gas.
77. Let me see.
78. That country has natural resources.
79. How's it going
80. Why on earth are you here?
81. Unfair tariffs are imposed on foreign products.
82. Good for you.
83. Could you make time for me.
84. Do you remember seeing me before.
85. It's boring.
86. I'm really looking forward to my vacation.
87. Things haven't gone my way today.
88. He reached his goal at last.
89. I heard something fall to the ground.
90. Should I take off my shoes.
91. Don't be a stranger.
92. Don't associate with such people.
93. Hang on a sec.
94. How are you?
95. Everyone makes mistakes.
96. The strike affected the nation's economy.
96. That was awesome.
97. There'll be standing room only.
98. We can make a day of it.
99. Mind if I use your pen?
100. It's going to be fun.