1. Are you ok?
2. Have you been waited on?
3. It's not straight.
4. I'll take you home.
5. No worries.
6. The water is not boiling yet.
7. Now you're talking
8. I like Chinese Food in general.
9. You can count on me anytime.
10. Be quiet, class!
11. How were they?
12. Don't mind them.
13. The movie is a little disppointed.
14. Can I hear it now?
15. I can't tell you which is which.
16. Is admission free.
17. I'm looking forward to it.
18. I thought I was as goner?
19. The rumor disappeared right away.
20. Christmas Day is December 25th.
21. There was something wired about incident.
22. I love oranges.
23. How wonderful!
24. I feel much better now.
25. That happens all the time.
26. I didn't have a choice.
27. Do you have this in differet color.
28. Either you are right or he is.
29. The rain shows no sign of stopping.
30. It's no problem.
31. Whatever book you read, read carefully.
32. You may choose any wine you like.
33. I'm so worried.
34. Please see that the job is finished.
35. Nobody got zero in that test.
36. No doubt about it.
37. We number him among our closest friends.
38. That's too bad.
39. That's celebrate.
40. It's great.
41. I'm here for you.
42. I need you.
43. It's a bright sunny day.
44. Why are you so late.
45. The girl looks so pale.
46. Use it sparingly.
47. The little girl did nothing but cry.
48. Their cattle are all fat.
49. I'll be glad to help him.
50. It's much easier than I thought.
51. That comes last.
52. When did you get to London.
53. I can't decide which to order
54. How terrifying!
55. Come here.
56. I'd like the way that you think.
57. That's very becoming on you.
58. That me elaborate.
59. The angle would be too narrow.
60. You look cheerful.
61. Could you put them in seperate bags?
62. I've just finished my work.
63. I'll be there in 10 minutes.
64. That tour already has a waiting list.
65. This is the reason I came here.
66. Nice meeting you.
67. I guess so.
68. Maybe next time.
69. Can I taste it.
70. I got drunk.
71. That's wonderful.
72. Oh, I can hear you clearly.
73. Yes, I am.
74. The school is farther than the station.
75. Could you say that, again.
76. Was it good?
77. I'm feeling better.
78. Maybe, maybe not.
79. You should go.
80. If only the rain would stop.
81. This no hurry.
82. I didn't hear you, Steve.
83. You shouldn't have.
84. I'm into yoga.
85. Keep up the good work.
86. How can I eat them.
87. Can I have one?
88. I can help with that.
89. I'll be right back.
90. Why don't you come visit me.
91. What am I supposed to do?
92. That's awesome.
93. I didn't mean to upset you.
94. What's happening here?
95. Are you having second thoughts.
96. I sure everything will be ok.
97. It's a nice change of pace.
98. It's awefully cold this evening.
99. Don't be overconfident.
100. I mean it.