1. I wish this train would go away.
2. This watch is 10 minutes slow.
3. Enjoy your visit.
4. Please stop here.
5. Please pull out the plug.
6. Fred followed my mother wherever she went.
7. Will you turn on the TV?
8. My aunt has three children.
9. This meal is adequate for two.
10. I'm happy.
11. Here comes the noisy one.
12. This rose has a white bloom.
13. Could I see a menu?
14. Is it okay to just order drinks.
15. Would you like to join us?
16. I've learned about Greek culture.
17. The dog seems to be sick.
18. What made her do so?
19. You're imagining things.
20. That child resembles his father.
21. Do you know what I mean.
22. Here's the plan.
23. Well put!
24. It sounds cool!
25. I may as wel go now.
26. I so scared!
27. It's close
28. Is Cathy home.
29. I can't get the lid off.
30. We'd better hurry.
31. How about a break.
32. May I have the check, please.
33. Is there a tennis court around here?
34. I saw a cottage in the distance.
35. The sky is becoming cloudy.
36. It was a great blow to us.
37. It must be worth a look.
38. You must send for the doctor.
39. Do you have any recommendations.
40. I wish you all the luck.
41. I dont expect anything from you.
42. It's not good enough yet.
43. Is it far by walk.
44. How long will it take to the station?
45. How early I should get there?
46. Here we go.
47. I'm disgusted with his attitude.
48. I'm pretty happy.
49. When is it?
50. You have to eat nutritious foods.
51. Think twice before you do it.
52. Is that so?
53. I'm leaving.
54. The chance was fully taken advantage of.
55. Please follow me.
56. I'm very skeptical.
57. You look exhausted.
58. The explosion reduced the facilities to ruins.
59. Let me show you how?
60. How did all this come about?
61. How is school?
62. This brings back memories.
63. You don't know?
64. At which bus stop should I get off?
65. He's supposed to be here by noon.
66. Your glasses fell on the floor.
67. You poor thing.
68. I believe in you.
69. Do you ever have a good sleep?
70. How do you say this in English.
71. It's almost 11:00.
72. The magazine does nothing for me.
73. That explains it.
74. This is no sense in complaining now.
75. He makes a bad impression.
76. I proparly should say no.
77. Sorry, I didn't quite catch that.
78. Tom likes his job very much.
79. I must go now.
80. Want to come?
81. What a game-changer.
82. The dew has fallen on the lawn.
83. I'll pretend I didn't hear that.
84. The man was surpirse at the news.
85. The name rang a bell in me.
86. Can she have broken off with them?
87. John is just a kind of person I imagined.
88. Emily is stunned.
89. I prefer coffe to tea.
90. How is business?
91. Did it work?
92. Nobody likes headaches.
93. The dress suits you very well.
94. Are we set?
95. I like to make an appointment.
96. It's very tasty.
97. Everyone gets along.