1. It's really hot, isn't it?
2. What would you like to drink?
3. Why don't you try to ask him.
4. She advise me to go there.
5. It's about time to came.
6. Good luck.
7. You're in luck.
8. Save a little for you.
9. You've better off not knowing.
10. That comes late.
11. What's the secret?
12. Could I have one-thrid of it.
13. What time is the party?
14. Which is correct?
15. I know so.
16. Where the hell are you going?
17. I can never compete with him?
18. The news filled her with sorrow.
19. Would you like something hot to drink?
20. It's your turn.
21. Clouds are flying across the sky.
22. May I join you?
23. Show me a cheaper one, please.
24. The wind is picking up.
25. Are you healthy.
26. Be nice.
27. What's he carrying?
28. We're open 24/7.
29. Hurry up.
30. What's this then?
31. The train hasn't arrived yet.
32. Is your school far from home?
33. I'll make it up to you someday.
34. Well, what sports do you like?
35. Are you kidding?
36. I seem to be all right.
37. Why don't we go in?
38. I'll be back in 2 minutes.
39. Happy holidays.
40. It's a little over my budget.
41. Could you empty the trash please?
42. I'm stuck on what to do.
43. What a relife.
44. We nearly missed the accident.
45. My brithday is coming soon.
46. Call or email me anytime.
47. Don't overthink it.
48. Is that ok?
49. The foreign executives visited the manufacturing plan.
50. Come to join us?
51. What is good for?
52. Would you lend me a hand?
53. I really appreciate your concern.
54. I would rather stay at home.
55. Woud you call us a taxi.
56. He'll be fine.
57. It was delicious.
58. May I wait here?
59. Don't hesitate.
60. Does that hurt.
61. She is nervous.
62. You can take as many as you want.
63. Where in Madrid are you staying.
64. I've been to the convennience store.
65. He is fun to be around.
64. We must try.
65. They serve wonderful Chinese at that restaurant.
66. Let's do lunch sometime.
67. What if does the schema does't work out?
68. Was there a lot of traffic.
69. I'll wake you up.
70. Do you have less expensive ones.
71. Of course.
72. You should think about it carefully.
73. I got too drunk last night.
74. He is equal to the task.
75. What's it called?
76. You must rest.
77. We're getting off track here.
78. Don't mention it.
79. There is always next time.
80. A good coach trains this team.
81. Soon the cold train came down.
82. Were you worried?
83. Smoking is harmful to your health.
84. What is it?
85. That song's bound to be a hit.
86. That was amazing.
87. Are you tried?
88. I'm all booked up this week.
89. I'll leave it to your imagination.
90. I'll be with you in spirit.
91. I left my watch at home.
92. You take it.
93. Thanks for coming.
94. That's a must-see.
95. Please hold the line a moment.
96. It's that all.
97. It can't be.
98. OKey by me.
99. Well, thanks anyway.
100. That'd be great.


